
                              1 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                   December 31, 1995, Sunday, Bulldog Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 4; Advance Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: WOMEN WITH CYSTIC FIBROSIS DEFY ODDS TO GET PREGNANT;
HEALTH: MORE MOTHERS ARE GIVING BIRTH AS NEW TREATMENTS HELP EXTEND THEIR LIVES.
THEY SAY THEIR 'MIRACLE' BABIES GIVE THEM NEW LIFE AND HOPE.

BYLINE: By MARY ESCH, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: GLENS FALLS, N.Y.

BODY:

   Having struggled with cystic fibrosis all her life, Sharon Dingman knew
pregnancy would be risky. Even if she succeeded in having a baby, she might not
live to see her child through grade school.

   After all, when she was diagnosed at birth with the incurable, smothering
disease, she wasn't expected even to live through childhood. When she met her
husband, John, medical advances had stretched the life expectancy for people
with cystic fibrosis to 21 years. She was 21 already.

   "All the accounts I had read about pregnancy and CF were very negative," said
Sharon Dingman, now 26. "The women often died within the first year of giving
birth, or got very sick during pregnancy."

   As she spoke, her fingers trailed over the silky hair and chubby toes of her
infant son, Ian. He was born June 11 at Albany Medical Center Hospital.

   The birth was celebrated as one of the first for a woman with CF in the
hospital's 146-year history. Within several weeks, two more mothers with CF gave
birth to healthy babies.

   Dr. Anthony Malanga, head of pulmonary medicine at the hospital, said the
successful pregnancies signify optimism that CF patients can live full lives if
their symptoms are carefully controlled through new treatments.

   Cystic fibrosis is the most common inherited disease among Caucasians. One in
20 people carry the gene responsible for the disorder, and one in 2,000 babies
have CF, said Dr. David M. Orenstein, director of the Cystic Fibrosis Center at
the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh.

   A few decades ago, most children with CF died before their second birthday,
Orenstein said. Now the life expectancy is near age 30, with many people
surviving into their 40s.

   The disease causes the lungs to become clogged with thick, sticky mucus that
provides a breeding ground for bacteria, leading to frequent infections such as
bronchitis and pneumonia.

   Patients require continuous antibiotics to stave off infection, and daily
physical therapy to expel mucus. They frequently are hospitalized when an
infection sets in.

   The pancreas also is affected, causing problems absorbing nutrients from
food. Thus, people with CF are usually thin and often malnourished.

   Therapeutic advancements include new antibiotics, mucus thinners and
anti-inflammatory drugs, improved methods of loosening and expelling mucus, and
enzyme tablets to improve nutrition.

   Joanne Washburn, 24, who lives 30 miles east of the Dingmans in Hoosick
Falls, had to contend with the threat of miscarriage caused by a weak cervix as
well as the debilitating symptoms of CF.

   "I grew up wanting a family," she said. "The doctor said it would be hard to
get pregnant" because the thick mucus of CF hinders conception. A year after she
married her husband Tim, she discovered she was pregnant.

   "My mom cried," Joanne Washburn said. "She didn't want that. Everyone had
tried to discourage me, even my husband. They didn't want to lose me."

   Terribly sick with CF symptoms and unable to gain weight, she lost her first
baby. She had another miscarriage a year later.

   During her third pregnancy, she developed asthma and was hospitalized three
times for lung infections.

   "Toward the end of the pregnancy, I got so big it restricted my breathing,"
she said. "They put me in an oxygen tent at 29 weeks."

   Her son Andrew was born by Caesarean section six weeks prematurely June 20.
While Washburn was under anesthesia, a pulmonary team poured a liquid mucus
thinner into her lungs.

   "He's given me new life, new hope," said Joanne Washburn, cradling her son at
the kitchen table of her parents' farmhouse. "Andrew's my miracle baby."

   Caring for a newborn as well as herself is difficult, said Washburn, who
doesn't work outside the home. She spends four to six hours a day giving herself
treatments with bronchodilators, antibiotics, steroids, mucus thinners and
chest-pounding exercises that help her cough up secretions.

   Dingman, who works full time as a respiratory therapist, and her husband, who
manages a shoe store, said they rely on help from their extended families within
the community.

   Both infants tested negative for CF. The parents were offered genetic testing
to determine the odds of passing the disorder on.

   If both parents had CF, the child also would have it. If the father was a
carrier of one of the 32 most common defects in the CF gene, there would be a
50% chance that the child would inherit the disease. If the father tested
negative, there would be a one-in-500 chance that the child would have CF.

   If the mother's lung function is good, pregnancy doesn't make cystic fibrosis
progress more rapidly, said Dr. Renee Samuelson, a high-risk obstetrician at the
medical center.

   "But if pulmonary function is low," Samuelson said, "the stress of pregnancy
can cause respiratory problems for both the mother and baby."

   Mothers with CF may have trouble meeting the fetus's nutritional needs as
well as her own, Samuelson said, and there is an increased risk of diabetes.

   Dingman, who eats three times the calories a normal person would just to
maintain her weight, said it was hard to do that after she developed diabetes
during pregnancy.

   The joy of new life mingled with sadness at the death of a friend a month
after Ian was born, Dingman said.

   "We went to the funeral of a girl (with CF) who was just 29. I've lost nine
friends in the past few years."

   "I hate the thought of not being around for him," she said, rocking her
sleeping son. "I hope gene therapy comes through. I try to keep a positive
attitude, even as I'm watching my friends die one by one."

   Medical researchers hope that gene therapy will cure CF by replacing the
defective gene with a normal one, Malanga said. Scientists already have
constructed the corrected gene, he said, but have not found the right
"biological syringe," such as a virus, to carry the gene into the patient.

   John Dingman said he and his wife did a lot of soul-searching before they
decided to have a child. "I was concerned that pregnancy would shorten Sharon's
life," he said. "I told her I'd rather have 10 years with her than one year with
her and a child."

GRAPHIC: Photo, Sharon and John Dingman with son Ian, above. The birth was one
of the first for a woman with cystic fibrosis in the Albany (New York) Medical
Center Hospital's 146-year history.  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1996


                              2 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 29, 1995, Friday, City Edition

SECTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; PINELLAS OBITUARIES; Pg. 5

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY

 TIMES

LENGTH: 4433 words

BODY:


   Belleair Beach

   KRON, NORMAN, 74, of Belleair Beach, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at  home.
He came here in 1988 from his native Philadelphia. He retired as an  assistant
U.S. attorney for southeastern Pennsylvania. He also was a  management and
financial consultant and helped establish Kaiser-Roth Co.'s  first international
branch in Venezuela. He was a graduate of the University  of Pennsylvania School
of Law and an Army veteran of World War II. He was a  contributor to the Jewish
Federation of Greater Philadelphia and helped  establish the Gene Therapy Center
at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. His  memberships included the Rotary and
YMCA, both in Ambler, Pa. Survivors  include his wife, Selma; a son, Edward,
North Wales, Pa.; four daughters,  Andrea Kron, Los Alamos, N.M., Bonnie Martin,
Largo, and Caroline Kron and  Debra Cramer, both of Indian Rocks Beach; a
brother, Dr. Samuel D., Miami  Beach; and four grandchildren. Curlew Hills
Funeral Home, Palm Harbor.

Clearwater

   BROWN, CECIL L., 41, of Clearwater, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Mease
Hospital Dunedin as a result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident  in
Dunedin. He was born in Augusta, Ga., and came here in 1955 from Denmark,  S.C.
He worked as transportation specialist for Paratransit, Clearwater.  Survivors
include three sons, Cecil L. Brown Jr. and Vincent Brown, both of  Clearwater,
and Bryan Martin, Queens, N.Y.; five daughters, Cecilia Brown,  Celisia Brown,
Cerea Brown, Cybil Brown and Celee Brown, all of Clearwater;  his mother, George
Emma Roberts, Clearwater; four brothers, Raymond Brown and  Wade Roberts, both
of Clearwater, Kevin Brown, St. Petersburg, and Eugene  Roberts, Largo; two
sisters, Brenda Brown, St. Petersburg, and Gloria Golson,  Brooklyn, N.Y.; a
maternal grandmother, Lillian Saxon, Denmark, S.C.; and a  companion, Idella
McKenzie, Clearwater. Young's Funeral Home, Clearwater.

   COLLINS, MARY V. "TRUDY," 87, of Clearwater, died Monday (Dec. 25, 1995)  at
home. She was born in Dry Ridge, Ky., and came here in 1977 from  Cincinnati.
She was a music teacher. Her memberships included Clearwater  Community Church
and Girls Home Bible Study Group, Clearwater. Survivors  include a daughter,
Stella Royalty, Cincinnati, and a cousin, Florence Gant,  Dry Ridge.
Moss-Feaster Funeral Home, Belcher Road Chapel, Clearwater.

   FOX, ANNA LOU, 77, of Clearwater, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at home. She
came here in 1973 from her native Buffalo, N.Y. She was a homemaker, a Baptist
and a member of Telephone Pioneers of America. Survivors include her husband  of
64 years, George T.; two daughters, Patricia Miller and Wendy San Mara,  both of
Clearwater; five grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.  Lakeview Chapel
Funeral Home/Sylvan Abbey Memorial Park, Clearwater.

   GODWIN, WINIFRED W., 75, of Clearwater, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at
Hospice House Woodside. She was a Clearwater native and a lifelong area
resident. She worked as a cashier-clerk in the Pinellas County Tax Collector's
Office in Clearwater. She was a member of St. Paul United Methodist Church,
Clearwater. Survivors include three daughters, Lyn Burgoyne, Wesley Chapel,  and
Lee Godwin and Ruth Hildebrand, both of Clearwater; three grandchildren;  and
seven great-grandchildren. Lakeview Chapel Funeral Home/Sylvan Abbey  Memorial
Park, Clearwater.

   HILLYER, DOROTHY M. "DOLLY," 70, of Clearwater, formerly of St.  Petersburg,
died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Columbia Largo Medical Center.  She was born
in Minneapolis and moved to St. Petersburg in 1984 from Crystal,  Minn. She
moved to Clearwater in 1991 from St. Petersburg. She worked 25 years  for North
Memorial Hospital in Minneapolis and retired as a business manager.  She was
Catholic. Survivors include a daughter, Janet M. Lowe, Palm Harbor;  two sons,
Bradley A., St. Petersburg, and Gregory J., Crystal; her mother,  Winifred J.
Lahey, St. Petersburg; a sister, Sheila Stuart, St. Petersburg; a  brother,
Dennis Lahey, Newport Beach, Calif.; and eight grandchildren.  Anderson-McQueen
Funeral Home, Ninth Street Chapel, St. Petersburg.

   VENTRELLA, MAGGIE, 85, of Clearwater, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at
Morton Plant Hospital, Clearwater. She was born in Italy and came here in 1978
from Melrose Park, Ill. She was a homemaker and a Catholic. Survivors include
her husband, Nickolas; a son, John Michael, Berkeley, Ill.; a daughter,  Lucille
Lembo, Clearwater; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Moss-Feaster Guardian Funeral Homes, Largo Chapel.

Dunedin

   COOK, WARREN A., 73, of Dunedin, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Manor
Care Nursing Center, Dunedin. He was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., and came  here
in 1979 from Dearborn, Mich. He worked as an auditor for Michigan Bell
Telephone. He was a Navy veteran of World War II and had served in the Royal
Canadian Air Force. He was a member of the Kirk of Dunedin. Survivors include
his wife, Norma Jean; four daughters, Cynthia Cook, Ann Arbor, Mich., Deborah
Mroz, San Jose, Calif., Molly Shudell, White Pigeon, Mich., and Nancy Billman,
Coldwater, Mich.; a stepdaughter, Angie Lodge, Dunedin; a stepson, Mitchell
Lodge, Livonia, Mich.; 14 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.  American
Burial and Cremation Services, Palm Harbor.

   WILL, HARRY E., 76, of Dunedin, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at home. He
came here in 1986 from his native Pittsburgh, where he worked for 46 years as
an engineer for Union Switch and Signal Co. He was an Army Air Forces veteran
of World War II and a prisoner of war in Germany. He was a member of St.
Andrews Presbyterian Church, Dunedin. Survivors include his wife, Geraldine  A.;
two sons, Dean E., Carry, N.C., and Jerald E., Pittsburgh; and two  daughters,
Joyce A. Oakley, Kennett Square, Pa., and Phyllis L. Wiggins,  Barre, Vt.
Moss-Feaster Funeral Homes, Dunedin Chapel.

Gulfport

   DORSEY, MARIE, 90, of Gulfport, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Gulfport
Healthcare & Rehabilitation Center. She came here many years ago and was a
self-employed child care worker. She was a Methodist. There are no known
survivors. C. E. Prevatt Funeral Home, Tyrone Chapel, St. Petersburg.

Indian Rocks Beach

   VOLLRATH, RUDOLPH FREDERICK "RUDY," 76, of Indian Rocks Beach, died
Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at home. He was born in Neuwied, Germany, and came
here in 1952 from New Jersey. He was a chef and worked at restaurants in Tampa
and St. Petersburg. He was Catholic and an Army veteran of World War II. He  was
a past commander of American Legion Post 128, Indian Rocks Beach.  Survivors
include his wife of 55 years, Eleanor; a son, Fred, Tampa; a  daughter, Jean
Farrall, Clearwater; two sisters, Agnes Walker, Largo, and Anne  Venneman,
Rochelle Park, N.J.; and five grandchildren. Hubbell Funeral Home  and
Crematory, Belleair Bluffs.

Largo

   GAY, IRMA L., 73, of Hernando Beach, formerly of Largo, died Wednesday  (Dec.
20, 1995) in Kennesaw, Ga. She was born in Detroit and moved to Largo in  1958
from Michigan. She moved to Hernando Beach from Largo in 1985. She worked  as a
stenographer at Honeywell, Largo, and was a member of the Honeybells.  Survivors
include a son, Harvey E., Kennesaw; a sister, Barbara I.  Kalbfleisch, Hernando
Beach; and three grandchildren. National Cremation  Society, Kennesaw, Ga.


   LOVAS, STEPHEN EDWARD, 87, of Largo, died Friday (Dec. 22, 1995) at home.  He
was born in Wallington, N.J., and came here in 1980 from Tarrytown, N.Y. He
retired as vice president of Westchester-Rockland newspapers in New York,  where
he also had worked as an assistant circulation director. He was an Army  veteran
of World War II, a president of New York State Circulation Managers
Association, a contributor to Editor & Publisher, a member of President Dwight
D. Eisenhower's White House Conference on Youth and a youth baseball coach.
Survivors include his wife, Hildur; two daughters, Linda Hoeschler, St. Paul,
Minn., and Laura Doyle, White Bear Lake, Minn.; a son, Stephen E. Jr., Lake
Oswego, Ore.; three brothers, Joseph, Emil and Edward, all of New Jersey; a
sister, Margie Kochan, New Jersey; and seven grandchildren. National Cremation
Society, Largo.

   WENTZ, HAROLD B., 68, of Largo, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at home. He  was
born in Knox, Ind., and moved here several years ago. He was a retired
salesman. Survivors include his wife of 45 years, Helen; two sisters, Marcella
Hauser, Knox, and Carol Wentz, Rochester, Ind.; three brothers, Norman, Knox,
Don, Rochester, and Bill, Lansing, Mich.; a half brother, Howard, Winamac,
Ind.; and several nieces and nephews. Gulf Breeze Cremation & Burial Society,
Largo.

Oldsmar

   CLEOTELIS, IRENE ANDREW, 89, of Oldsmar, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at
Stratford Court of Palm Harbor. She was born in Mytilene, Greece, and moved to
the Tampa Bay area in 1922 from Lesvos, Greece. She worked for the state food
service division at Plant High School in Tampa and retired in 1973. She was a
member of St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Tarpon Springs, a charter
member of St. John Greek Orthodox Church in Tampa and a founding member of the
Tampa Chapter of Greek Orthodox Ladies Philoptochos Society. She also was a
member of Mystic Chapter 110 Order of the Eastern Star. Survivors include a
son, Gregory A., Hopewell, Va.; three daughters, Helen Harageones, Oldsmar,
Mary K. Poulos, Tallahassee, and Dorothy Cowden, Tampa; 11 grandchildren; and
13 great-grandchildren. Curry & Son Funeral Home, Tampa.

Palm Harbor

   MARETTI, DORIS LOUISE, 78, of Palm Harbor, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995)  at
Columbia Largo Medical Center. She was born in Buffalo, N.Y., and came here  in
1967 from New York. She was a self-employed musician and a member of High  Point
United Methodist Church, Clearwater. Survivors include three sons, Gary
Brumburgh and Gregg Brumburgh, both of California, and Scott Brumburgh,
Maryland. C. E. Prevatt Funeral Home, Tyrone Chapel, St. Petersburg.

Pinellas Park

   LEVY, ROSE, 87, of Pinellas Park, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at St.
Anthony's Hospital. She was born in Washington, D.C., and came here in 1960
from Cottage City, Md. She was a homemaker and a Methodist. Survivors include  a
daughter, Dorene Patterson, Hyattsville, Md. International Chapels Funeral
Home, Pinellas Park.

   LUNDERMANN, MAE, 82, of Pinellas Park, died Thursday (Dec. 28, 1995) at
Integrated Health Services, Pinellas Park. She was born in Clifton, N.J., and
came here in 1968 from Paterson, N.J. She was a member of United Church of
Christ, Seminole, International Order of Odd Fellows, its Golden Rod group and
Rebekah Lodge 7. Survivors include a cousin, Gertrude K. Gibb, Pinellas Park.
C. E. Prevatt Funeral Home, Tyrone Chapel, St. Petersburg.

   WASELKO, JOHN, 76, of Pinellas Park, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at
Hospice House Woodside. He came here in 1971 from his native Pittsburgh, where
he was a steel worker. During World War II, he served in the Army. He was a
Catholic. Survivors include a son, John, and a daughter, Shirley Waselko, both
of Pittsburgh; and a brother, George, Seminole. C. E. Prevatt Funeral Home,
Tyrone Chapel, St. Petersburg.

Redington Beach

   KENNEY, ROBERT L., 63, of Redington Beach, died Monday (Dec. 25, 1995) at
home. He came here in 1988 from his native Chicago, where he was an insurance
agent for Washington National Insurance and Commonwealth Insurance companies.
He was an Air Force veteran of the Korean War. Locally, he was a member of  Holy
Cross Catholic Church. Survivors include a sister, Patricia Brucker, St.
Petersburg; and three brothers, James, Lemont, Ill., and John and Raymond, of
St. Petersburg. Gee & Sorensen Funeral Home and Cremation Services, St.
Petersburg.

Seminole

   DURYEE, GEORGE S., 93, of Seminole, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at St.
Joseph's Hospital, Tampa. He was born in Floral Park, N.Y., and came here in
1967 from South Yarmouth, Mass. He was an assistant general manager for St.
Paul Insurance Co., New York City. He worked 23 years as a volunteer for Meals
on Wheels and 14 years as a volunteer at the VA Medical Center at Bay Pines.  He
was a member of Lake Seminole Presbyterian Church, Howard Lodge AF&AM,  South
Yarmouth, Seminole High-Twelve Club, Seminole Gardens Men's Club and  Junior
Deputy Sheriffs Association of Pinellas County. Surviors include a  daughter,
Patricia McNamara, Houston; three grandsons; and four  great-grandchildren.
Lewis W. Mohn Funeral Home, Seminole.


   MACKEY, ANNE G., 76, of Seminole, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at  Columbia
Largo Medical Center. She was born in Czechoslovakia and came here in  1973 from
Woodbridge, N.J. She was a homemaker. Her memberships included St.  Matthew
Catholic Church, Largo, New Neighbors and Grads, Seminole, and Indian  Rocks
Artists' Guild. Survivors include her husband, James E.; two daughters,  Connie
Bareford, Springfield, N.J., and Lisa Mackey, Seminole; a sister,  Margarget
Cheche, Metuchen, N.J.; and three grandchildren. E. James Reese  Funeral Home
and Crematory, Seminole.

   O'BRIEN, RITA MARIE, of Seminole, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at home. She
came here in 1987 from her native Buffalo, N.Y. She was Roman Catholic and
active in the New Life Ministries. Survivors include a son, Thomas C. Rose,
Seminole; a sister, Sandy Bell, Bradenton; and three grandchildren, Christie
Rose, Seminole, and Troy Rose and Derik Rose, both of Buffalo. Osgood Cloud
Funeral Home, Pinellas Park.

   PATTON, LILLIAN B., 89, of Seminole, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Sun
Coast Hospital, Largo. She came here in 1947 from her native Newcastle, Pa.  She
worked as a clerk in a drugstore. She was Presbyterian. Survivors include  two
sisters, Norma V. Shorts, Seminole, and Margaret Atwell, Brookville, Pa.;  and
many nieces and nephews. E. James Reese Funeral Home and Crematory,  Seminole.

St. Petersburg

   BASSHAM, OLIVIA D., 82, of St. Petersburg, died Monday (Dec. 25, 1995) at
Westminster Shores Health Center. Born in Pike County, Ky., she came here in
1950 from Verda, Ky. She formerly worked at Whitehall Nursing Home and was a
member of Lakewood United Methodist Church. Survivors include a son, Carl,
Metairie, La.; a daughter, Hazel Hawthorne, Kentucky; a brother, Jack
Hendricks, and a sister, Dale H. Smith, both of Pikeville, Ky.; and 13
grandchildren. Beach Memorial Chapel, St. Pete Beach.

   CHADWICK, MILDRED L., 71, of St. Petersburg, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995)  at
St. Anthony's Hospital. She came here in 1952 from her native Toledo, Ohio,  and
was a homemaker. She was a Methodist. Survivors include a son, Robert H.,  St.
Petersburg; three daughters, Mildred Oliver, Fort McCoy, and Mary Chadwick  and
Laura Houtz of St. Petersburg; six grandchildren; and two  great-grandchildren.
Memorial Park Funeral Home, St. Petersburg.

   CRATES, DANIEL E., 89, of St. Petersburg, died Sunday (Dec. 24, 1995) at
Deluxe Care Inn, South Pasadena. He was born in Arlington, Ohio, and came here
in 1985 from Memphis, Tenn. He was a sales representative for Crates Saddle
Co., Chattanooga, Tenn., for several years and was a Methodist. Survivors
include a companion, Donald M. Ehlinger, St. Petersburg; and several nieces  and
nephews. National Cremation Society, Largo.

   FISH, FRED J. JR., 49, of St. Petersburg, died Monday (Dec. 25, 1995) at
home. He was born in Detroit and came here in 1972 from Cleveland. A pipe
fitter, he was active with Pipefitters Union Local 55, Cleveland, and Local  111
of Pinellas County. He was a member of First Baptist Church of Pinellas  Park.
Survivors include his wife, Nancy; three daughters, Tammy Harr, Palm  Harbor,
Paula Fletcher, Largo, and Michelle Skibo, St. Petersburg; his mother,  Olga
Fish, Kenneth City; a brother, Lawrence, Hemphill, Texas; two sisters,  Kathleen
Pabst, Indian Rocks Beach, and Lillian Austin, St. Petersburg; and  seven
grandchildren. Lakeview Chapel Funeral Home/Sylvan Abbey Memorial Park,
Clearwater.

   HENN, CATHERINE, 95, of St. Petersburg, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at
Bayfront Medical Center. She came here in 1971 from her native New York City.
Locally, she was a member of Church of the Transfiguration. Survivors include  a
brother, Leo Schumann, St. Petersburg. Thomas J. Brett Funeral Home, St.
Petersburg.

   HIGGINS, JAMES M., 50, of St. Petersburg, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at
Holyoke (Mass.) Hospital. Born in Holyoke, he came here in 1985 from
California, where he worked as a floral designer on various movie sets,
including City Heat, Maxie and Down and Out in Beverly Hills. He also oversaw
the floral arrangements during the visit of Queen Elizabeth II to California  in
1983. Locally, he was a designer at Delma's Flower Booth. He was a member  of
St. Justin Martyr Catholic Church. Survivors include his mother, Helen E.
Higgins, Holyoke. Barry J. Farrell Funeral Home, Holyoke, Mass.

   HINDMAN, GERALDINE L., 83, of St. Petersburg and formerly of Seminole, died
Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Greenbrook Nursing Center. She was born in Ohio
and came here in 1962 from Meadowbrook, Pa. She worked as a clerk/typist for
the city of St. Petersburg. She was a member of Christ the King Lutheran
Church, Largo. Survivors include her husband of 59 years, Robert M.; a son,
Robert Jr., St. Petersburg; and a daughter, Jerryanne Shear, Pinellas Park.
Moss-Feaster Funeral Homes, Serenity Gardens Chapel, Largo.

   JONES, ELIZABETH D., 91, of 3801 40th St. S, St. Petersburg, died Wednesday
(Dec. 27, 1995) at College Harbor Health Center. She came here in 1906 from  her
native Plant City and was a high school teacher for 27 years at Gibbs High
School, retiring in 1948. She attended Davis Elementary School and Edward
Waters High School and was a graduate of Florida A&M College, now Florida A&M
University. She was a member of the Zeta Epsilon Omega chapter of Alpha Kappa
Alpha Sorority and the Jovialistic Bridge Club and held two life memberships  in
the NAACP. A member of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church, she  served on
the Stewardess Board and the Pulpit Aides Board. Survivors include  two
daughters, Lou Jean Pridgen-Green, St. Petersburg, and Gloria F. Johnson,
Miami; and two grandchildren, Henry B. Pridgen, St. Petersburg, and Leslie R.
Pridgen, Atlanta. Creal Funeral Home, St. Petersburg.

   LOUZIS, JAMES N., 94, of St. Petersburg, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at
home. Born in Horion Pigadi, Greece, he came here in 1966 from Cedarhurst,
N.Y., where he retired in 1955 as owner and operator of Ice Cream Candy Parlor
& Luncheonette after 37 years. He was a member of St. Stephanos Greek Orthodox
Church, St. Petersburg, and vice president of its board of directors, and he
served at the altar. He was a 50-year member of Order of Ahepa Sunshine  Chapter
15, St. Petersburg. An Army veteran of World War II, he was a member  of
American Legion Post 14, St. Petersburg. He was past president of the Greek
Mutual Society Athena of New York City. Survivors include his wife of 48  years,
Jennie; and four sisters, Tasia P. Stathis, Hydra, Greece, Elaine G.  Louzis and
Katherine E.V. Stagias of Horion Pigadi, and Foteny A. Damalas,  Tarpon Springs.
Memorial Park Funeral Home-Cemetery, St. Petersburg.

   RICE, WILLIAM R., 71, of St. Petersburg, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at
home. He was born in North Eaton, Ohio, and came here in 1958 from Bowling
Green, Ohio. He was a mathematics professor at St. Petersburg Junior College
from 1958 until retiring in 1991. He was chairman of the science-mathematics
department for 15 years and a mathematics division director for 10 years. For
20 years, he led the Articulation Council at the college and was a member of
the Organization for Undergraduate Programs for 15 years. He was a member of
the Mathematics Association of America, Florida Division, for 30 years, where
he was named an outstanding contributor for the state in 1984. During World  War
II, he served as a Navy aviation electronics technician's mate second  class
aboard the USS Roi, an aircraft carrier stationed in the Pacific. He was  a
Protestant. Survivors include his wife of 47 years, Barbara; two sons,  Clifford
K. and Douglas C. of St. Petersburg; a daughter, Jill E. Scott,  Orlando; three
brothers, Harold K., North Eaton, Robert, Greenwich, Ohio, and  Arthur, Venice,
Fla.; two sisters, Dorothy Nelson, Luverne, Ala., and Margaret  Karl, Oxford;
and five grandchildren. E. James Reese Funeral Home & Crematory,  Seminole.

   ROBERTSON, RUTH, 95, formerly of 1835 1/2 Seventh Ave. S, St. Petersburg,
died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at Bayfront Medical Center. She was born in  Live
Oak and came here in 1960 from Longwood. Locally, she was a member of  Prayer
Tower Church of God In Crist. Survivors include a stepdaughter, Elouise  Brown,
St. Petersburg; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.  Creal
Funeral Home, St. Petersburg.

   STEWART, ETHEL M., 75, of St. Petersburg, died Thursday (Dec. 28, 1995) at
Columbia St. Petersburg Medical Center. Born in Cairo, Ga., she came here in
1975 from Jasper, where she was a member of Mount Moriah Missionary Baptist
Church and sang in the choir. Survivors include three daughters, Lee Gibson,
Annie Johnson, and Lena V. A. Stewart, and a son, Tommy Jr., all of St.
Petersburg; two brothers, Collie Crawford, St. Petersburg, and Buddy Sloan,
Thomasville, Ga.; a sister, Maggie Smith, Thomasville; eight grandchildren;  and
13 great-grandchildren. Smith Funeral Home, St. Petersburg.

   WETENDORF, ALMA M., 98, of St. Petersburg, died Tuesday (Dec. 26, 1995) at
Columbia St. Petersburg Medical Center. She was born in Cook County, Ill., and
came here in 1955 from Palatine, Ill. She was a homemaker and member of Bay
Pines Lutheran Church, Seminole. Survivors include a son, Leonard C., St.
Petersburg; a sister, Hulda Krecker, Arlington Heights, Ill.; six
grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren. Raymond M. Hook & Son Funeral Home,
Seminole.

   WHITE, MYRTIS O., 95, of St. Petersburg, died Wednesday (Dec. 27, 1995) at
Good Samaritan Nursing Home. Born in Ashland, Ala., she came here in 1963 from
San Francisco, where she was a beautician and owner of a beauty salon. She was
a Protestant. Survivors include a sister, Lula Mae Jones, St. Petersburg; and
several nieces and nephews. Gee & Sorensen Funeral Home and Cremation  Services,
St. Petersburg.

   WILSON, MARY B., 98, of St. Petersburg, died Thursday (Dec. 28, 1995) at
Tyrone Medical Inn. she was born in Harrison County, Ohio, and came here in
1988 from Belmont, Ohio. She was a member of Concord (Ohio) Presbyterian
Church. Survivors include a daughter, Veda L. Wildenhaus, St. Petersburg; nine
grandchildren; 17 great-grandchildren; and four great-great-grandchildren.
Thomas J. Brett Funeral Home, St. Petersburg.

   ZIMMER, EDWARD, 90, of St. Petersburg, died Sunday (Dec. 24, 1995) at
Integrated Health Services, Pinellas Park. Born in Ferndale, Pa., he came here
in 1990 from Coraopolis, Pa., and retired after more than 45 years as an
engineer for the Pittsburgh-Ohio-Schenango Railroad. He was an Army veteran of
World War II and was a member of Moose Lodge 1145, St. Petersburg. A 32nd
degree Mason, he was a member of Coraopolis Lodge, F&AM, and Carnegie
Consistory. He was a Baptist. Survivors include a daughter, Patricia Brennan,
St. Petersburg; two stepsons, Harry Jukes, Mississippi, and Donald Jukes,
Pennsylvania; two sisters, Anne Brown, Orlando, and Margaret Scott, Massillon,
Ohio; eight grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; and a great-great-grandson.
Anderson-McQueen Funeral Homes, Alan R. McLeod Chapel, St. Petersburg.

South Pasadena

   HOFSTETTER, HELEN A., 86, of South Pasadena, died Sunday (Dec. 24, 1995) at
Bay Pointe Nursing Pavillion. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., she came here in 1971
from Babylon, N.Y., where she was a retail clerk at Abraham & Strauss
Department Store for 10 years. She was a member of St. John's Catholic Church,
St. Pete Beach, and the American Legion women's auxiliary in Babylon.  Survivors
include a daughter, Dorothy A. Walter, North Merrick, N.Y.; a  sister, Theresa
McNaney, River Bend, N.C.; and three grandchildren. National  Cremation Society,
Largo.

   MESSENGER, SARA L. SEACORD, 86, of South Pasadena, died Wednesday (Dec. 27,
1995) at Convalescent Care Center. Born in Jersey City, N.J., she came here in
1966 from Bloomfield, N.J., and was a homemaker. Locally, she was a member of
Redeemer Lutheran Church. Survivors include a son, William A., Melbourne; nine
grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren. R. Lee Williams & Son Funeral Home,
St. Petersburg.

Tarpon Springs

   LANGBEHN, ALMA IRENE, 81, of Tarpon Springs, died Sunday (Dec. 24, 1995) in
Winona, Minn. She was born in Jonesboro, Ark., and came here in 1980 from  Gary,
Ind. Survivors include two daughters, Karen Bode, Des Moines, Iowa, and
Virginia Laken, Winona; two sons, Rodger, LaPorte, Ind., and Harold, Odessa;  13
grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Burke Funeral Home, Winona.

   FATOUROS, JEANNIE ZERVOS, 65, of Tarpon Springs, died Wednesday (Dec. 27,
1995) at Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital, Tarpon Springs. She came here in 1990
from her native Gary, Ind. She was a homemaker and a member of St. Nicholas
Greek Orthodox Cathedral and the Senior Levendia Dance Group, both in Tarpon
Springs. Survivors include two sons, Pete Zervos and William Zervos, both of
Tarpon Springs; three brothers, Bill Fatouros, Gary, George Fatouros,
Melbourne, Australia, and Jim Fatouros, Patras, Greece; a sister, Stella
Vendouras, Melbourne, Australia; and a grandson, Demetri Zervos, Tarpon
Springs. Vinson Funeral Home, Tarpon Springs.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (7); Irene Andrew Cleotelis, (ran LT CT NT);
Ruth Robertson, (ran LT CTI); Alma M. Wetendorf, (ran LT CTI); James M. Higgins,
(ran LT CTI); Ethel M. Stewart, (ran LT CTI); Elizabeth D. Jones, (ran LT CTI);
James N. Louzis, (ran LT CTI)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995


                              3 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

               December 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;  Page 6;  Column 4;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Boston Scientific Cheered by Market

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

DATELINE: NATICK, Mass.

BODY:

   Even in the midst of the current mergers and acquisitions frenzy in corporate
America, the Boston Scientific Corporation has raised eyebrows with its
voracious appetite this last year and a half.

   The company, a maker of medical devices, has swallowed five significant
competitors since August 1994, in stock swaps totaling $2.08 billion. The
hypergrowth strategy has caused revenues to more than double, from $450 million
in 1994 to more than $1 billion this year; meanwhile, the company's work force
has leaped from 1,800 a year ago to more than 7,000 by year's end.

    But if Wall Street is worried that Boston Scientific has bitten off more
than it can chew, it doesn't show it. [The company's stock has climbed steadily
through the year from a low of $16.75 a share to $47.125 at Wednesday's close.]
Earnings per share have jumped from 81 cents in 1994 to $1.24 this year.

   From its start in 1979, Boston Scientific has been a bet on medical care
evolving toward the sort of cost consciousness that has fully taken hold only in
the last few years.

   Most analysts rate the stock a strong buy, saying that Boston Scientific is
building a powerhouse in its markets for minimally invasive medical devices --
catheters used for treatment of coronary, gastrointestinal and urological
diseases.

   The company's founders, Peter M. Nicholas and John Abele, expected that the
high financial and physical cost of major surgery would lead the medical
community to embrace tools for the least damaging and dangerous methods of
diagnosis and care.

   Viewing the human body as a series of "biologic cylinders" that could be
explored, purged and otherwise repaired using catheter-based devices like
balloons poked through the skin, Boston Scientific developed products that
quickly became standards among physicians. The beauty of the products is, for
example, in angioplasty, in which doctors insert a catheter with a balloon
fitted to the end that is inflated and used to clear clogged arteries. An
alternative treatment might require something as drastic as open heart surgery.

   "Using these devices allowed a physician to perform intervention much earlier
in the disease cycle, with lower cost and lower trauma," said Mr. Nicholas, the
company's chairman, chief executive and president. "The alternative, which was
further down the disease cycle, was major surgery, which was often worse than
the disease itself."

   With the company's sudden growth over the last year, Mr. Nicholas said his
biggest worry was losing the "richness and crispness" of Boston Scientific's
culture, a culture characterized by risk-taking highly devoted employees, many
of whom hold large financial stakes in the company's future through generous
stock options.

   Mr. Nicholas is optimistic that the integration of the new companies will be
smooth. And analysts, though wary, say if any company can pull it off, Boston
Scientific can.

   "It's a pretty daunting task," said Thomas Gunderson, a medical technology
analyst with Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "Can they juggle five balls? Nobody
has been able to do it yet. But they are one of the best managed companies I
know of. They have a lot of capacity and are very attentive to details."

   The kind of growth undertaken by Boston Scientific reflects what Mr. Nicholas
believes will be required for a company to survive and thrive in health care.
With the accelerating consolidation of hospitals and other health care
providers, purchasers of medical devices suddenly have tremendous economic
clout, he said.

   And where the decision-maker was once the physician, today's buyer tends to
be a corporate finance officer or purchasing executive.

   "For us to be effective, we need to have the broadest product line within
each of our businesses," Mr. Nicholas said. "We also need a leading share of the
market; we have to be the low-cost, high-quality producer and we need access to
and control of technology that will impact our business in the future."

   In acquiring Scimed Life Systems Inc., Heart Technology, Cardiovascular
Imaging Systems Inc., Meadox Medicals and EP Technologies, Boston Scientific
calculated that it was, in effect, buying product lines rather than companies.
Scimed, for example, sells a broad line of angioplasty catheters. Heart
Technologies makes a catheter with a football-shaped burr at the end that spins
like a router device, at 190,000 rotations a minute, to clear out plaque from
arteries.

   As hospitals merge or are swallowed up by chains, the pressure has increased
for device manufacturers to consolidate as well, making it tougher for small
players to compete. For example, Johnson & Johnson's initially hostile takeover
of Cordis, another catheter maker, is likely to mean more aggressive pricing
strategies in the industry. Companies like Seattle-based Heart Technologies, Mr.
Nicholas said, had a single high-quality product line "which made them
vulnerable; they couldn't survive alone, so now they become a product line in
our company."

   Attention to detail has characterized Boston Scientific's management.
Frederick Wise, an analyst with Bear, Stearns, lauded Mr. Nicholas and Mr. Abele
for their ability to work together: Mr. Nicholas commanding the strategic
business and marketing side and Mr. Abele tending to the technical needs of the
health care market.

   "They are a very rare demonstration of a co-chairmanship that has worked for
16 years," Mr. Wise said.

   Now, the pair will be tested beyond anything they have yet experienced.

   "They're a good company but they are at a very critical stage, moving from a
moderate-sized company to a big company," said Dr. Robert Z. Gussin, corporate
vice president of science and technology at the rival Johnson & Johnson. "To
assimilate all those businesses and move as quickly as they have in the past
will be difficult. The jury is still out."

   Moreover, a changing regulatory and business environment threatens Boston
Scientific's continued commitment to risk-taking and leading- edge research,
according to Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, chief of cardiovascular research at St.
Elizabeth's Hospital in Boston and a longtime customer.

   "They have a lot of factors in health care reimbursement working against
them," Dr. Isner said.

   He cites the company's willingness to build catheters for cardiovascular
human gene therapy. "They are the only ones willing to do that, so the
risk-taking instincts are still alive there," Dr. Isner said. "But will the
market allow them to do that a year or two from now?"

   In its formative years, Boston Scientific earned a reputation In the medical
community for forging close ties to physicians. Mr. Abele, whom many in the
industry call a visionary, became a fixture at hospitals and medical gatherings,
soaking up new ideas and seeking input from doctors. "John is a great tinkerer,
constantly talking to anybody who had an idea," Dr. Isner said.

   Boston Scientific had quietly remained private and richly profitable until
1992, when it reluctantly went public to pay off a 10-year-old financial
obligation to Abbott Labs, which had bought 20 percent of the company in 1982.

   Now, Boston Scientific is squarely on the Wall Street radar screen.

   "Over the next 10 years, you won't see any field of medicine grow as fast as
minimally invasive procedures," said Dean Kamen, president of Deka, a
Manchester, N.H., medical products research and engineering firm. "Boston
Scientific is very well positioned in all those areas."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boston Scientific's founders and co-chairmen, Peter M. Nicholas,
left, and John Abele, see expansion as necessary in the new health market.
(Michael Quan for The New York Times)

Chart: "Aggressive Moves" lists the five companies Boston Scientific has
acquired in the last 18 months.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995


                              4 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                   DECEMBER 27, 1995 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2479 words

HEADLINE: PATIENT'S GENE THERAPY YIELDS TENSE WAIT

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Donald appeared much more relaxed than the researchers watching from the
edges of the operating room as nurses and anesthesiologists readied him for
surgery.

   He was about to undergo a revolutionary cancer treatment, and the scientists
had reason to be tense. They were trying a new form of gene therapy and didn't
know how dangerous it was or whether it would work.

   Donald, 64, was a retired asbestos worker with less than two years to live.
He was being killed by mesothelioma, a rare cancer that attacks the membranes
covering the lungs and the opposing chest wall. It usually strikes asbestos
workers, and there is no effective treatment.

   The researchers at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center hoped to
infect cancer cells in Donald's chest with a virus or "vector," bioengineered to
carry a killer gene. The vector would carry the gene into the cancer cells,
making them vulnerable to ganciclovir, an antiviral drug.

   In essence, it would fool the drug into thinking that the cancer was a virus
infection.

   If the treatment worked, it would be a major advance in gene therapy and
begin a new era in the war against cancer.

   *

   For more than five years, scientists have been trying to use gene therapy on
cancer. More than 100 laboratories in 13 countries have been experimenting with
12 types of cancer. They've tried 25 different genes. All have failed.

   In theory, gene therapy should work.

   That's because cancer is a disease of malfunctioning cells - they don't stop
multiplying. If a gene could tell the cells to stop multiplying, the cancer
would be cured.

   The Penn experiment was yet another approach, using a new gene and a new type
of virus to deliver it. But instead of trying to repair the cancerous cell, the
gene therapy would make it more vulnerable to chemotherapy.

   The new vector is an adenovirus, which normally causes colds but has been
disabled to prevent this.

   The Penn team hoped that its adenovirus would do what none of the others had
done - control cancer.

   *

   Donald was one of two people who volunteered this fall for the highly
experimental therapy.

   Originally he was to be the second patient in the trial, but doctors decided
at the last moment to start with him.

   He had less advanced disease and was stronger than Quinten, 56, a former
asbestos worker from the coal regions of central Pennsylvania. The Inquirer has
agreed not to use the test subjects' last names in accordance with gene- therapy
guidelines.

   Quinten had been praying for a miracle to save him and saw the therapy as an
answer to his prayers. But he could still be dropped if his condition worsened
before it was his turn.

   Quinten would be following Donald's progress with great interest. The two
men, who met briefly while undergoing preliminary testing, shared many traits.
They were about the same age, had grown children and grandchildren, and had
worked for many years with asbestos. And they were both dying.

   *

   On Nov. 16, surgeon Larry R. Kaiser cut into the right side of Donald's chest
as Steven M. Albelda, a pulmonary and critical-care specialist in Penn's
department of medicine, watched.

   With country music playing, Kaiser inserted a fiberoptic probe attached to a
tiny camera and color television monitor, which hung over the operating table.

   Suddenly the TV screen filled with a remarkable view of the inside of
Donald's chest. It showed the pleural cavity, the space between the diseased
membranes.

   Illuminated by a light on the end of the probe, it looked like a cave, with
the diaphragm and chest being the floor and walls of the cave, and the arching
ribs above, the roof.

   Everything was white, when it should have been pink. The white was the cancer
and fibrous tissue, crowding out healthy cells.

   Kaiser used stainless steel pincers, glinting from the light of the probe, to
nip pieces of tissue from the roof, walls and floor of the cave. He handed each
biopsy sample to pathologist Leslie Litzky, who put it into a tiny bottle, with
a label indicating where the sample came from. The samples would be compared
with samples taken after Donald received the gene therapy.

   The operation took an hour and a half. Donald, with the tube still in his
chest, was taken to his room in the clinical research center to wait for the
experimental treatment.

   *

   The therapy, developed by Albelda and Kaiser, was designed to get around the
primary limitation of conventional chemotherapy - excessive toxicity.

   All cancer drugs travel throughout the body, inadvertently killing healthy
cells and usually causing hair loss, nausea and potentially lethal anemia.

   Instead of causing widespread destruction, this therapy works more like
precision bombing. Cell destruction is limited to where it's applied - in
Donald's case, the pleural cavity in his right chest.

   That's because the structure and large size of adenovirus vectors make it
difficult for them to pass through membranes and blood vessels and spread
through the body.

   Manufactured by Penn's Institute for Human Gene Therapy, the vectors would be
delivered directly to the pleural cavity through the tube in Donald's chest.

   Once there, they would slosh around, infecting cells and delivering a gene.
The gene forces cells to make the enzyme thymidine kinase, harmless to the cell
by itself.

   Then, doctors would administer the ganciclovir. Like any medicine, it's
carried throughout the body. But ganciclovir is harmless to cells unless they're
dividing and making viral thymidine kinase. The enzyme turns ganciclovir into a
poison that causes the cells to self-destruct.

   Since only cells in the pleural cavity would be making viral thymidine
kinase, cell destruction would be limited to the area. And since mesothelioma
cells divide three to four times faster than healthy pleural cells, the cancer
would be more vulnerable to the drug.

   *

   With the tube sticking out of his right chest, Donald spent the night in the
clinical research center waiting for the gene therapy.

   It was not yet dawn when Colleen Baker, manager of the institute's Human
Applications Laboratory (HAL), arrived to prepare the viruses, which had been
stored in a freezer at minus 170 degrees F. Researchers do not know how fast
vectors deteriorate, so they keep them frozen until just before use.

   Donning paper gown, robe, cap and booties, Baker entered the super-sterile
HAL and waited for word from Donald's doctors. It came a little past 7, when
Daniel H. Sterman called from Donald's room. Sterman, a senior fellow in the
chest-cancer research lab, was in charge of Donald's day-to-day care.

   "We're ready if you are," he said.

   "Be down in a bit," Baker replied.

   The one billion viruses that would be given to Donald were contained in a
vial not much larger than a thimble.

   Warming the vial in her hands and working under a glass hood that protected
the viruses from airborne contaminants, Baker mixed the vectors into sterile
water, which was sucked up into three syringes as large as turkey basters.

   Baker then stuck hot-pink labels onto each syringe, identifying the vectors
as an experimental drug not approved for general use.

   She put the syringes onto a tray of ice and headed down to Donald's room.

   Entering the clinical research center, she was greeted by Sterman.

   "Are you excited?" she asked, clutching the tray to her chest.

   "Very," Sterman said. He took her to Donald's room.

   Donald was sitting up in bed, smiling broadly, pleased by all the attention
he was getting.

   Standing at his bedside were three very excited and slightly tense doctors -
Albelda, oncologist Joseph Treat, and Litzky, who would oversee the analysis of
samples to determine whether the treatment was working.

   Everyone was waiting for the surgeon to arrive. Nurse manager Linda S. Knox
fussed over Donald and took his temperature. Sterman tried to relieve the
growing tension by making small talk with Donald.

   Finally, Kaiser breezed in.

   "Cough," he said to Donald, inspecting the tube in his chest.

   Satisfied, he was prepared to infuse the vectors when he saw the clamps that
were to be used for the procedure.

   They were plastic.

   This won't do, Kaiser said. He wanted the more dependable, stainless steel
clamps. No one could explain why proper clamps weren't available. Kaiser marched
out of the room to get the right clamps.

   Kaiser reappeared 10 minutes later with steel clamps. Kaiser took one of the
syringes from Baker, who had stayed to witness the historic event, and started
administering the vector through the chest tube.

   "You might feel a little sting. Actually we won't know what you should feel,
since we've never put an adenovirus into anyone's chest. But usually the stuff
we put into people stings," Kaiser said.

   He pressed the syringe plunger all the way down.

   Kaiser emptied a second syringe into Donald's chest, asked him to cough
again, and told him to roll about so the vectors would slosh against the cancer
cells.

   "That's it?" Donald asked.

   *

   Theoretically, the billion viruses flooding Donald's pleural cavity
immediately started infecting cells and delivering genes.

   Ideally, each virus would transfer its thymidine kinase gene to a different
cell, forcing it to make the enzyme, but no one was expecting 100 percent
transfer efficiency.

   The researchers would be happy if 5 to 10 percent of the cells were infected,
which is what they were able to do in animals. Infecting 10 percent of cells,
researchers were able to wipe out tumors in mice.

   Albelda says this is because of the "bystander effect," whereby cells in the
vicinity of infected cells are also killed. He's not sure why this happens.

   Although Donald's dose of adenoviruses matched the largest one ever given,
Albelda didn't think the treatment would affect the cancer or show much gene
transfer. Scientists barely saw tumor shrinkage in mice given comparable doses.

   Albelda was hoping that the vectors would not be too toxic to give in even
larger doses.

   A woman who had gotten as much adenovirus in a New York City cystic fibrosis
trial developed serious side effects. But hers had been administered in a higher
concentration to the interior of her lungs.

   Albelda underwent a few tense hours after the gene vector was infused.
Donald's heart rate increased from 75 to 110 beats per minute and his
temperature climbed to 100.

   But by 7 o'clock, everything began to return to normal and Albelda breathed
easier.

   *

   The first chance to find out whether the gene vector worked came four days
after the billion adenoviruses were put into Donald's chest.

   With a second operation, researchers harvested nine new biopsies from
Donald's pleura and treated them with an antibody that reacts with thymidine
kinase and turns infected cells brown. Finding brown cells in the biopsies would
suggest that they had been infected by the adenovirus and that the gene was
making thymidine kinase.

   Sterman and Litzky examined the cells with a dual-scope microscope while
Albelda watched on a color television monitor.

   Sterman first looked at rat biopsies stained with the antibody.

   Because the animals had not been treated with the vector, the antibody should
not stain the cells, normally light blue. These were control slides to make sure
that the biochemical didn't inadvertently turn untreated cells brown.

   The television monitor filled with light-blue cells. The picture looked like
a scene of hills rising from lakes on a moonlit night. Then, Sterman examined
cells taken from Donald after he got the vector.

   Another moonlit scene appeared, but this time it was filled with rivers and
pockets of reddish brown.

   "Wow, there's a lot of it," Sterman said, referring to the brown.

   "Can you focus?" Albelda said.

   The moonscape became crisper.

   "It worked," Albelda said. "Look at that edge. It really went in there."

   The excitement drew the attention of other people in the laboratory who came
to look at the monitor. Soon, a half-dozen people were gathered around Sterman
and Litzky.

   Kaiser arrived and was told why everyone was so excited. Then he looked at
the slides and became excited himself.

   Sterman got a second bunch of control slides. These were made from biopsies
taken from Donald during the first operation, before he had been treated with
the vector. Like the cells from the untreated rats, these cells should also be
blue.

   Sterman put the first slide under the microscope. A moonscape filled with
rivers and pockets of reddish brown filled the monitor.

   Everyone got quiet. Another slide was checked. More brown. Someone said there
wasn't quite as much brown as on the other slides.

   There shouldn't have been any brown.

   The staining antibody was reacting to something in addition to thymidine
kinase, probably white blood cells that were absent in the rat samples that
stained only blue.

   All the excitement was for naught.

   The researchers spent the next 10 days studying the biopsies with more
accurate tests. They, too, showed that no gene transfer had occurred, at least
not in the nine biopsy samples Kaiser had collected.

   Apparently Albelda was right. The starting dose was too low to show effect.
But the good news was that the treatment, at this level, was not toxic.

   *

   Donald spent the next two weeks receiving twice-a-day, intravenous infusions
of ganciclovir.

   It was possible that vectors had delivered genes to the cancer in unsampled
areas and the cells were now making thymidine kinase and being killed by the
ganciclovir.

   It was even possible that the ganciclovir would reduce the size of Donald's
cancer and maybe, thanks to the bystander effect, wipe it out.

   Though Albelda didn't think so, no one could say for sure that this wasn't
happening.

   Donald was hopeful. He had come to Penn convinced that he would be dead
within a year.

   The gene therapy might not save his life, but at least it did restore the
uncertainty of when he would die.

   *

   The day before Donald was discharged, a man came into his room and hugged
him. It was Quinten. The two men huddled for 15 minutes, while Donald told
Quinten what to expect. Donald was in good spirits and looked great.

   Quinten was excited. Finally it was his turn.

   EPILOGUE. Quinten underwent surgery Dec. 7. Despite his advanced disease,
doctors were able to implant the tube and deliver the adenoviruses, but, like
Donald, no signs of transfer were seen.

   Still, Quinten remained convinced that the treatment was helping him.

   "For miracles to come true," he said, "you've got to believe."

   On Dec. 14, a third patient - a former longshoreman who'd carried asbestos
off of ships - got the treatment. Six days later, Sterman looked into his
microscope and saw nothing but brown cells.

   This time it was for real. Gene transfer had occurred, but it's too soon to
say if the treatment will affect the cancer.

NOTES: THE QUEST: SEEKING AN ULTIMATE CURE
Second of two articles, part of a series
of reports on gene-therapy research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (2)
1. A researcher holds a vial of the virus the Penn team hopes will cause
cancer cells to be killed. (The Philadelphia Inquirer, VICKI VALERIO)
2. A patient signs a release form to undergo the experimental gene-therapy
treatment as his wife offers moral support. With the couple are researchers
from the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center. (The Philadelphia Inquirer
, VICKI VALERIO)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              5 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                  DECEMBER 27, 1995, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C3; PEOPLE IN BUSINESS

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: PEOPLE IN BUSINESS

BYLINE: Colleen Benson

BODY:

    Planned Parenthood/Golden Gate, a newly formed affiliate of the national
reproductive and primary health care organization, named Dian Harrison, former
executive director of the San Mateo affiliate, president and CEO.

   Sherman Clay, a San Bruno supplier of pianos and related products, appointed
senior VP Tom Austin to president of the retail division.

   Trident Microsystems Inc., a Mountain View developer of integrated circuit
graphics controllers and multimedia video processing devices, said Amir
Mashkoori joined as VP of operations. He had been an operations director at
Advanced Micro Devices.

   Network Peripherals Inc., a Milpitas supplier of networking products, said
Derek Obata, 37, joined as VP of Asian sales. He was with MiniStor Peripherals
Corp. as VP of worldwide sales.

   Xilinx Inc., a San Jose supplier of programmable logic devices and software,
named VP of research and development Bill Carter to VP and chief technology
officer. David Bennett, founder and former VP of engineering for NeoCAD, was
named VP of software product development.  Director of strategic products Dennis
Segers was named VP of FPGA product development.

   Somatix Therapy Corp., an Alameda biotechnology company, appointed Lawrence
Cohen, 42, to VP of research, succeeding company founder Richard Mulligan, who
joined a gene-therapy initiative at Harvard University and remains a consultant
with Somatix. Cohen was a senior scientist and group leader of virology and
tissue culture at Applied bioTechnology Inc. in Cambridge, Mass.

   The Hotel Bedford, a San Francisco member of the Kimpton Group, said David
Martin, 36, joined as general manager, succeeding Ken Dickson, who transferred
to the Hotel Vintage Court in San Francisco.  Martin was with the Sea Port
Marina Hotel in Long Beach in the same capacity.

   AMB Institutional Realty Advisors, a San Francisco investment firm, said Jane
Harris, formerly VP in the acquisitions department, was appointed VP of
research. Pamela Puryear joined as VP in the portfolio management group. She was
with RREEF Funds as VP and portfolio manager.

   Intuit Inc., a Menlo Park provider of personal finance and small business
accounting software, named Stella Tavilla as VP of operations. She was with Home
Shopping Network Inc. in St. Petersburg, Fla., as executive VP and chief
information officer.

   Hill and Knowlton Inc., a New York public relations and public affairs
agency, promoted senior account supervisor George Paris, 29, to VP of the San
Francisco agency and group supervisor of the local public affairs specialty
practice.

   McKesson Corp., a San Francisco provider of pharmaceuticals and health care
products, named Patrick Connoy, 46, president of health care delivery systems,
succeeding David Mahoney. He was with Aspect Medical Systems in Natick, Mass.,
as president and CEO.

   Hewlett-Packard Co., a Palo Alto manufacturer of computers and related
products, named Cynthia Danaher, 37, as general manager of the medical products
group, succeeding Gary Eichhorn. She was general manager of HP's imaging systems
division.

   DIRECTORS' MOVES

   GTE Mobilnet California, a Pleasanton provider of cellular products and
services, named Michael Cymbrowsky as director of marketing. He was with Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. in Cerritos as senior marketing manager.

   Connective Therapeutics, a Palo Alto biotechnology firm, said Mitchell Katz,
41, joined as senior director of pharmaceutical operations. He was with Univax
Biologics Inc. as director of clinical operations.

   Ashtech Inc., a Sunnyvale telecommunications company, appointed Len
Kruczynski, 51, as director of strategic relationships. He was with Trimble
Navigation as chief scientist.

   Information Access Co., a Foster City provider of informational products in
CD-ROM and various formats, said Stephen Rhind-Tutt joined as director of
product management for the library division. He was with Silver Platter
Information Inc. in Norwood, Mass., as VP of sales and marketing for the U.S.
region.

   System Integrators Inc., a Sacramento supplier of editorial and advertising
systems to newspapers, appointed Jennifer Mitchel as director of worldwide
marketing. She was with Dataquest as director and principal analyst of the
digital documents research service.

   THE BOARD GAME

   Kenneth Derr, 59, chairman and CEO of Chevron Corp., in San Francisco, was
elected to the board of AT&T in New York.

   Hanson, Bridgett, Marcus, Vlahos & Rudy, a San Francisco general practice law
firm, said partner Paul Gordon, 45, was appointed chair of the Legal Committee
of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging for 1996.

   AG Associates, a San Jose supplier of rapid thermal processors, appointed
Cecil Parker, 54, to its board. He heads Cecil Parker Associates, a consulting
practice in Victoria, Texas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (7),(1) Gordon, (2) Kruczynski, (3) Tavilla, (4) Puryear, (5)
Mashkoori, (6) Austin, (7) Harrison

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995


                              6 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   December 26, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Gene-therapy snake oil

BYLINE: Daniel S. Greenberg

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- Pipe down. You are overselling a new and unproven method of
treating serious diseases and are misleading the public into believing in
miracle cures that do not exist.

   That sounds like mainstream medical science assailing the quacks. But there's
something different about this one. It's the establishment talking to the
establishment. And the admonition, a disturbing indictment of mainstream medical
research, arises from the new era of super-hyped science, personal glory-seeking
and overnight millionaires from biotech speculation.

   The reproach about overselling of medical treatments was recently delivered
by a committee of physicians and scientists appointed by the National Institutes
of Health. Their message was directed at some of the country's most honored
researchers, working in elite universities, hospitals and at the NIH, on today's
most publicized and promising field of medical science, gene therapy. That's the
hopeful term for treating cancer, cystic fibrosis and other diseases by
replacing defective or missing genes.

   The message is also directed at the biotechnology industry, whose stocks soar
on good news, real or inflated, about developments in gene therapy. And the NIH
committee says it also applies to the press, which gullibly parrots the cheery
but flimsy claims of researchers in gene therapy.

   With the National Institutes of Health providing $ 200 million a year and
biotechnology firms spending at least that much, some 600 patients have received
gene-therapy over the past five years. The reports from the doctors treating
them, though usually technically accurate, have tended to convey a misleading
impression of individual successes and overall progress.

   In fact, no cures have occurred and in the very few instances where patients
have improved, the contribution of gene therapy is open to serious doubt, since
other treatments were also involved. Which is why the director of NIH, Nobel
laureate Harold Varmus, citing the "meager" results of gene-therapy trials,
commissioned a committee of experts last May to study the field.

   Their critique of the claims and realities of gene therapy, delivered
December 7, invites wonder about how quackery should be defined. "Expectations
about current gene-therapy protocols have been oversold," reported the
committee, co-chaired by Prof. Stuart H. Orkin, of Harvard Medical School, and
Prof. Arno G. Motulsky, of the University of Washington.

   Over-zealous

   Observing that "Efficacy has not been established for any gene-therapy
protocol," the committee warned: "Over-zealous representation of clinical gene
therapy has obscured the exploratory nature of the initial studies, colored the
manner in which findings are portrayed to the scientific press and public, and
led to the widely held, but mistaken perception, that clinical gene therapy is
already highly successful."

   The committee directed some of its harshest comments at the biotech industry,
noting that "overzealous, uncritical reports of clinical results are used by
industry to promote investment and perceived dominance." And, expressing concern
for "the objectivity and integrity of academic investigators associated with
specific companies," the committee stated, "Decisions regarding diseases to be
treated need to be made by investigators on scientific rather than financial
criteria."

   The long-range outlook for gene therapy was rated exceptionally good, but the
need now is to get back to fundamental research to develop a deeper
understanding of the basic biology that's involved, the committee stated.

   The hazards of overselling and claiming success, it warned, are two-fold:
First, patients, hearing the exaggerated claims, are clamoring for treatments
that don't exist and are making family-planning decisions in the expectation
that gene therapy can fix genetic birth defects. Second, public disappointment
can produce a backlash against further support for what is, in the long term, a
highly promising type of treatment.

   The dangers cited by the NIH are real and the corrective advice is sound.
Furthermore, the stinging critique supports science's claims to be
self-policing, self-correcting and public-spirited.

   But the problems cited have been visibly festering for a long time, and only
now have been publicly flagged as unacceptable. The message for the public is
plain: be wary of claims of medical miracles, regardless of their origin.

   Daniel S. Greenberg is a syndicated columnist specializing in the politics of
science and health.

TYPE: OP-ED, COMMENTARY

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995


                              7 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                      December 26, 1995 Tuesday PM EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 1995 words

HEADLINE: POINT MAN AT PENN HOSPITAL'S BOSS IMPROVED THE BOTTOM LINE - THEN THE
FEDS CAME LOOKING FOR $30 MILLION / HUP BOSS NEXT FOR KNIFE? MEDICARE MESS
CLOUDS HIS FUTURE

BYLINE: Jim Nolan, Daily News Staff Writer

BODY:

   When federal auditors and the U.S. attorney's office dropped the bomb on
Medicare billing abuses at teaching hospitals, Penn was ground zero. And
"Neutron Bill" was in charge.

   Now Dr. William Nimmons Kelley - the hard-nosed, ambitious administrator
credited with curing the ailing finances of the Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and entrusted with securing its place in the future of health care
- must contend with the fallout of a costly scandal that happened under his
watch.

   The damage to finances can be measured - $30,013,490 in settlement and
penalties, scheduled to be transferred from the Clinical Practices of the
University of Pennsylvania physicians' bank account to the U.S. government
before the end of this week.

   But the cost to HUP's prestige as the country's oldest - and one of its best
- teaching hospitals is yet to be determined.

   Equally uncertain is the impact the embarrassing federal findings and
ensuing state and private insurer investigations will have on the distinguished
career of the 56-year-old Kelley, CEO of the hospital, dean of the medical
school and Penn's most powerful - and most feared - physician.

   The embarrassment couldn't come at a worse time for the Atlanta-born Kelley,
an orchestra buff and married father of four who has made himself comfortable in
an $800,000 Bryn Mawr home and who is among the city's cultural patrons.

   Kelley, dubbed "Neutron Bill" by critics of his management style - "only the
buildings remain standing" when the device explodes - is currently at the end of
a five-year contract and is up for review for a seven-year extension.

   Sources said Kelley's boss, Penn president Judith Rodin, views the Medicare
debacle as more than a minor blip on the screen.

   "She's quite dissatisfied," said the source, who asked not to be identified.
"The review is far from a rubber stamp."

   Rodin declined comment.

   Kelley, who signed the civil suit settlement on behalf of the 600 doctors of
the 19 faculty practices, has turned down requests for interviews.

   Penn officials have vowed to improve billing practices and denied any
wrongdoing, but have yet to publicly explain how or why doctors overbilled
Medicare or submitted bills for work performed by residents.

   In many ways, what happened at Penn could have happened at any of the
nation's 1,200 teaching hospitals.

   "The fundamental problem is that you have an institution trying to subsidize
teaching and research in an environment where fees are dropping for clinical
care," said Dr. John Eisenberg, former chief of internal medicine at Penn who is
now at Georgetown University Medical Center. "It's a different world now in
terms of health care. There are pressures on physicians to be as productive as
possible."

   Perhaps no one in health care knows how to squeeze out productivity - or
profits - better than Bill Kelley.

   Under Kelley's leadership, Penn has done what many thought would be
impossible. It has erased millions in debt while spending millions to build. It
has sunk millions into experimental research of gene therapy while generating
net profits five times greater than its competitors.

   Kelley's achievements have won him praise and prestige as a health-care
administrator to lead American medicine into the next century. The Clintons even
invited him to the White House in 1992 to seek his expertise on crafting a
national health plan.

   "Times are changing," Kelley said during a 1993 interview. "We have to stay
ahead of that change or go out of business."

   So what went wrong?

   Doctors and health-care administrators who worked with Kelley cite a number
of reasons. Some said Penn was snagged by money-hungry health-care auditors who
cracked down on a billing system that maximized loose Medicare guidelines.

   Others pointed to intense pressure placed on clinic doctors to increase
productivity. And then there's Kelley's own personal management style, which has
produced impressive results - and a number of bitter critics.

   "Am I a tough guy?" he answered an interviewer in a 1993 Philadelphia
magazine article. "I do set high standards. And I expect people to measure up to
those standards."

   Much of the blueprint for Kelley's success at Penn came from his previous job
as chief of internal medicine at the University of Michigan Medical School and
hospital in Ann Arbor, a position he held between 1975 and 1989.

   Two years after his arrival at Michigan, he restructured the salaries of his
doctors, basing half their pay on satisfying productivity goals. The policy
helped him earn the "Neutron" nickname that sticks to this day.

   "Bill demands excellence - he walked tall and carried a big stick," said Dr.
Jeffrey Stross, a Kelley friend who worked closely with him at Michigan. "He's a
strong leader who understands power and knows how to use it. And if you get in
his way, you could get run down."

   At Michigan, Kelley also implemented a billing system to take advantage of
the increased productivity he was creating. To help him, Stross said, he relied
on the expertise of trusted colleague Wilbur "Bud" Pittinger.

   "The major theme was to bill for everything we did," said Stross, who
believes the Penn Medicare problem is the result of a stricter interpretation of
Medicare payment guidelines.

   "My guess is that if you were to look carefully at billing practices at other
hospitals, you would find the same thing," Stross said. "I think this
'crackdown' (at Penn) essentially just means that they interpreted things
differently then they have in the past."

   At Michigan, Stross said, his department was able to "maximize" its billing
and still "play within the rules" by determining which services brought in more
money when they were "bundled" together and which services were more profitable
when billed separately.

   "Like in a cardiac arrest," Stross explained. "The difference between billing
for things like a central line, intubation and defibrillation - vs. one global
fee for all services."

   Pittinger accompanied Kelley to Penn in 1990 and, as hospital director,
assumed control over the clinical practices unit.

   CPUP's revenues for fiscal year 1994 were $226 million - 70 percent higher
than they were when Kelley arrived.

   Kelley's impressive performance at Michigan - he also increased federal
funding for research grants from $2 million to $42 million annually - and his
impeccable academic credentials - Emory, Massachusetts General, Harvard, Oxford,
Duke - convinced then-Penn president Sheldon Hackney that he was the right man
for the job of rescuing HUP.

   "You can't separate Bill and his style from the time we're in," said
Eisenberg, referring to Kelley's achievements in lean health-care times. "It
made him attractive to this institution."

   *

   Before Kelley's arrival in 1989, HUP was in a period of decline. It had lost
$28 million in the two years prior to his taking control and had gone through
five directors in the previous 10 years. Billing practices were incomplete and
disorganized, and power over the institution was largely decentralized.

   "The hospital was pretty much run by the chairmen of the clinical
departments," said one doctor who used to work at Penn. "And their priorities
went in this order: one, cover their own turf, and, two, take care of the rest
of the hospital."

   Kelley changed all that. He centralized control over billing and stripped
department chairmen of much of their power, including allocation of the
resources they generated.

   "On the good side, he recognized the gross deficiencies in our information
systems - records, financial, billing, physical plant," said a longtime Penn
doctor who left after clashing with Kelley. "But he essentially became an
autocrat. A control freak. Nothing happens at the medical school, the hospital
or the clinics that he didn't control one way or another."

   Strong-willed chairmen or clinic doctors either accepted less autonomy or
were isolated and on the way out for challenging Kelly.

   "What part of no don't you understand?" was a favorite Kelley retort, a
former Penn doctor recalled.

   Chiefs of medicine and cardiology left and were replaced by a Kelley protege
and his wife. There were also prominent defections from orthopedics and other
departments.

   "I think Neutron Bill was being Neutron Bill," said another longtime
physician who bailed after Kelley detonated his plan. "It was always 'My Way' -
him and Frank Sinatra."

   As at Michigan, Kelley also pushed hard on productivity in clinical
practices, in part to fuel an ambitious construction agenda and for research to
pursue his vision of how medicine would be practiced in the future - through
gene therapy.

   "There were stresses and changes, and you knew you would be seeing more
patients," said another prominent physician who feels burned by 'Neutron Bill.'
"I had a lot of money that went to Bill Kelley to pay for hospitals and research
in molecular biology."

   Still, doctors interviewed were mixed on the impact Kelley's new management
initiatives had on CPUP physicians to overbill or submit bills for work done by
residents.

   "I imagine a doctor would get more pressure from his wife to increase revenue
than from Bill Kelley," one doctor joked.

   Another said Kelley's initiative was ahead of its time. "Productivity focused
on the individual being accountable for covering his own salary," said another
doctor who worked at Penn. "People lived in fear, but were also happy there was
a set of rules to play by."

   "It's like a pass-fail system at a school," Eisenberg said. "When you
institute a grading system and reward productivity, some people work hard and
other people respond by cheating. You can't blame the school for that."

   And no one can blame Kelley for HUP's financial performance.

   Figures obtained from the Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council
show the hospital netted $53.9 million profit in 1992, and $119 million in
profit in 1993 - a two-year total nearly five times the profit margin of Thomas
Jefferson University Hospital, its nearest competitor in the city. In the fiscal
year ended in June 1994, the Penn Health system posted a $41 million profit.

   But 1994 will likely not go down as HUP's - or Kelley's - favorite year.

   *

   In November, around Thanksgiving, according to auditor Pat Marion, the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services began to audit Penn's Medicare billing
practices.

   Federal officials have said that Penn was chosen at random. But
representatives of Blue Shield, a private health-care provider that insures one
of every two Pennsylvanians, said that they had received an anonymous letter
detailing the abuse at Penn - a letter that was also sent to the feds.

   Blue Shield has also launched its own investigation, as has the state, which
partially administrates Medicaid.

   Earlier this month, federal officials announced more stringent guidelines
covering physicians' billing under Medicare. And now Kelly and HUP will have to
do without Pittinger's services.

   Their years-long partnership split in January, when Pittinger left Penn after
what officials said was disagreement over a new contract.

   Neither Pittinger nor Kelley has commented on the specifics of the departure.

   It's hard to say how Kelley or HUP will fare once the dust settles from the
federal audit.

   Supporters said he was likely to hold himself to the same accountability
standards as his doctors.

   Even his critics don't count him out. They use words like "brilliant,"
"workaholic" and "visionary" to describe him.

   But many wonder whether the anonymous letter that dropped the bomb on Penn
over any other teaching hospital didn't have a neutron of revenge in it.

   "When Bill Kelley came to this job, the question was not going to be whether
he was liked or disliked, but whether he was going to be respected and save
jobs," Eisenberg said. "Well, a lot of people still have jobs, whether they like
him or not."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (3)
1. William Kelley, CEO of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania
(MICHAEL AHERN) (Page 1)
2-3. Under CEO William Kelley, revenues at the Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania have skyrocketed, but a $30 million fine has raised questions
about his tough leadership style (MICHAEL AHERN, SPECIAL DAILY NEWS FILE
PHOTO) (DAILY NEWS FILE PHOTO)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                              8 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    DECEMBER 26, 1995 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2206 words

HEADLINE: CANCER PATIENTS LOW ON HOPE JUMP AT GENE-THERAPY TRIAL

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Quinten and his wife, Carole, went to sleep on the night of Sept. 19 praying
for a miracle. They prayed to Jesus. They prayed to the saints. They prayed to
their departed relatives.

   Earlier in the day, a doctor in Reading had told them that Quinten, 56, a
former asbestos worker, had cancer. It could kill him in six months. He
certainly would be dead within two years.

   Quinten, a Protestant, and Carole, a Catholic, believed in miracles. The
couple knew a child who'd recovered from leukemia after doctors had given up
hope. And their own son had been rescued after his car crashed in a desolate
spot.

   Now they were praying for a miracle to save Quinten.

   The next day, Quinten received a phone call from a University of Pennsylvania
researcher, who had been contacted by the Reading physician. He told Quinten
that Penn had developed an experimental gene-therapy drug against the rare kind
of cancer that was killing him.

   Only days earlier, the Food and Drug Administration had given Penn the go-
ahead to start testing it on people. Would Quinten be willing to participate?

   To the Penn researchers, it was only a "phase one" trial to test the safety
of an unproven drug. It probably wouldn't affect the disease at the low doses
being given to the first test subjects.

   To Quinten and Carole, it was the miracle they had been praying for.

   For the 3,000 Americans who each year get the disease Quinten has, there is
no cure. Called mesothelioma, it is a rare pulmonary cancer, mostly striking
asbestos workers.

   At best, radiation, chemotherapy and surgery relieve the pain.

   The cancer attacks the pleura, the frail membranes that cover the lung and
opposing chest wall. Growing slowly, it takes decades to reach the point where
it's noticed. By the time mesothelioma is detected, the victim generally has
become increasingly short of breath and has only a year or two to live.

   Once the toxicity trials were completed, the Penn researchers hoped to kill
the cancer with a one-two punch - a combination of gene therapy and a
conventional antiviral drug.

   The plan was to use the gene therapy to change the cancer cells and fool the
drug into believing that the tumor was a viral infection.

   If they were successful, it would be the first time that gene therapy
controlled any major disease and it could lead to treatments for a host of other
ailments.

   The mesothelioma study was one of several trials started or being planned by
Penn's Institute for Human Gene Therapy.

   The institute has already launched a trial of drugs against a rare
cholesterol disease and cystic fibrosis. And soon it would start testing drugs
against brain cancer, the eye disease retinitis pigmentosa, muscular dystrophy,
and a rare liver disease of newborns.

   *

   Carole accompanied Quinten on the 90-mile drive from their home in the coal
regions of central Pennsylvania.

   Unlike the sad trip home from Reading the week before, the two were giggling
with excitement as the car sped toward Philadelphia.

   Quinten talked about the good fortune of being diagnosed just after the FDA
had given its approval for the trials. They were convinced it was all part of
the miracle.

   At the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Quinten discovered that he
was one of two volunteers being considered so far for the trial. The other
patient, Donald, 64, was a former New Jersey asbestos worker.

   The two men, whose last names The Inquirer has agreed not to use because of
guidelines governing gene-therapy research, underwent a battery of blood, lung
and imaging studies, including CAT scans, which showed the cancer in their
chests. The research team would use the studies to determine who should be
chosen for the trial.

   Quinten and Donald were told that the trial would involve 12 volunteers
divided into four groups. The purpose of the study was to determine the maximum
drug dose that could be given safely. Each group would receive a larger dose.

   Patients would be hospitalized for 19 days and undergo two operations to
implant a tube in their chests. The cells in their chests would be infected with
a virus, and then they would be given an antiviral drug. Their therapy would be
monitored.

   Joseph Treat, the oncologist who oversaw the clinical trials, emphasized that
the gene therapy was experimental and that the men shouldn't expect any
benefits.

   Both men were given consent forms, detailing possible dangers and authorizing
treatment if they were accepted into the trial.

   They were told to take the forms home for a week. They were urged to discuss
everything with friends and relatives before deciding.

   It was Friday afternoon, Sept. 29. Daniel Sterman, a lung specialist who
would be providing their day-to-day care in the hospital, said he would call
them the following Thursday for their decision.

   *

   Suddenly the two men were getting all sorts of attention from the medical
system, after frustrating months of trying to get doctors to realize how sick
they were.

   That's the way it had always been with asbestos - scientists were slow to
recognize its danger.

   Asbestos was thought to be harmless in 1959 when Quinten started working at
the Johns-Manville Corp., a Manville, N.J., company that made many products
containing asbestos.

   He and his wife, who was an office worker there, remember the air being
filled with tiny asbestos particles, but no one wore masks.

   "It was literally like a snowstorm, a blizzard in the building," Carole said.
"You couldn't see sometimes 10 or 20 feet. You couldn't see into the next room
for everything floating in the air. That's how bad it was."

   For nine years, Quinten worked in that atmosphere, but he thought he was in
fine health when he left in 1968. It wasn't until last February that the first
symptoms appeared in the form of shoulder pain.

   His family doctor diagnosed it as muscle strain, from shoveling snow. But the
pain refused to go away, sending Quinten to an orthopedist, neurologist,
rheumatologist, chiropractor and acupuncturist, each diagnosing a different
problem.

   Finally, in September, Reading pulmonary specialist Ronald C. Krol diagnosed
mesothelioma.

   Quinten, who has a son and daughter and two grandsons, is now part of a
lawsuit, which at most will net him $30,000 from a $5.5 million trust set up by
Johns-Manville to compensate workers hurt by asbestos. The company filed for
bankruptcy in 1982 after many employees sued.

   Donald did not work for any one company. He was a freelance asbestos worker
from 1954 to 1988.

   Though for most of that time no one knew asbestos was dangerous, Donald made
his own breathing masks because the dust gave him headaches. Coworkers kidded
him.

   He retired at 56 and bought a condo in Florida. Then he began hearing stories
of fellow workers dying from this strange cancer - 15 in all.

   He hoped that his precautions would spare him, but in September 1994 an X-
ray revealed something in his chest. The doctor said he probably had a cold, but
Donald insisted on more definitive studies.

   A CAT scan showed fluid in his right lung. He insisted on exploratory
surgery. Biopsies revealed possible mesothelioma.

   Five months later, the diagnosis was confirmed.

   He and his wife started searching the nation for medical centers doing
research on mesothelioma and a union contact told him about Penn.

   Donald, the father of two daughters and the grandfather of three, doesn't
believe in miracles like Quinten does. But he was hopeful.

   *

   Even before Donald and Quinten returned home to make their decisions, the
research team was gathering in the fourth-floor surgical conference room to make
their own.

   Quinten's CAT scan showed such extensive disease clogging the pleural cavity
that it was questionable whether there was room to apply the viruses, or
vectors, and set the cells up for the knockout punch.

   Even so, surgeon Larry R. Kaiser said he could get the virus in.

   Other doctors noted that Donald's CAT scans showed less advanced disease, and
it would be easier to get the vector to the cancerous cells.

   Lung specialist Steven M. Albelda thought both patients offered research
advantages because they represented different extremes - Quinten with late-
stage disease, and Donald, thanks to his persistence, with less advanced cancer.

   After more debate, Kaiser, Albelda and the others decided to enroll both men.
Quinten would be the first because his fatigue and shortness of breath were
increasing.

   *

   The trial would be the culmination of four years of work by Albelda and
Kaiser.

   Albelda had wanted to develop a treatment ever since 1982 when he was a
pulmonary doctor in training and stood by helplessly as incurable lung diseases
killed his patients.

   In 1991, Albelda, working in the division of pulmonary and critical care in
the department of medicine, teamed up with Kaiser, who shared Albelda's
frustration. Soon they turned to the emerging field of gene therapy.

   Slowly the plan evolved to treat mesothelioma with adenoviruses, a virus that
normally causes colds. Mesothelioma seemed like the perfect disease to go after.

   It's confined to the pleura and doesn't metastasize or spread like most
cancers. It's comparatively easy to reach surgically. And it's incurable.

   The plan was to infect the cancer cells in Quinten's chest with the
adenovirus, which would force the cancer to make a viral enzyme, thymidine
kinase.

   Then Quinten would be given the antiviral drug ganciclovir, which would be
turned into a poison by the thymidine kinase.

   Like nitro and glycerine, which don't explode until they're brought together,
the enzyme and the drug are harmless to cells by themselves. But when brought
together, they're deadly to cells.

   Because of this, only the cancer cells in the pleural cavity would be killed
by the ganciclovir.

   It was an interesting strategy, but Albelda and Kaiser needed help in
developing the adenovirus vectors. Since no one at Penn was making vectors at
the time, they thought of collaborating with another research center. Then in
1993 they heard the news:

   James M. Wilson, who pioneered using adenoviruses in gene therapy, was coming
to Penn to establish an Institute for Human Gene Therapy.

   *

   As instructed, Quinten and Donald talked about the trial with friends and
relatives. But they didn't wait for Sterman's call.

   They telephoned Penn on Monday morning with their decisions. Both wanted to
participate.

   Now the waiting began. The vectors were being prepared in another Penn
laboratory in the Institute for Human Gene Therapy. It would probably take
another month or two.

   The delay tormented Quinten. He was in pain and short of breath. He knew the
cancer was growing. He wanted to undergo treatment as soon as possible.

   In November, Carole's sister in California FedExed a bottle of water from
Lourdes, France, where many are said to have been miraculously cured. Every
night, Carole rubbed down Quinten's chest with the water, and every night they
prayed for their miracle to continue.

   Finally, the vector was ready and Quinten was told to come to Penn on Nov. 16
to start the treatment he was convinced would save his life.

   A few days before, Sterman called Quinten at the bottle-cap plant where he
was a supervisor.

   Quinten was out of breath when he got the phone call. This worried Sterman.
Had his condition deteriorated to the point that it would be too dangerous to
subject him to the therapy?

   The research team began to have second thoughts about starting the trial with
the sicker patient. If something went wrong, Quinten would have no reserve to
draw upon. And if the first patient in the trial died, it could scuttle the
whole project.

   Maybe it would be better to drop Quinten from consideration. But then, maybe
he hadn't deteriorated that much. They decided to give Quinten another CAT scan
to see whether the cancer had advanced.

   In the meantime, they would give Quinten's slot to Donald. It seemed the
safer thing to do.

   *

   Quinten had no idea how close he was to being dropped from the study when he
and Carole arrived at Penn on Nov. 13.

   But Sterman was surprised by how good Quinten looked. His shortness of breath
seemed no worse. And his CAT scan showed no evidence that the cancer had grown.

   Sterman huddled with Treat, the oncologist. A surgeon was called in. Did he
think it was possible to get through the congested pleura to deposit the
vectors?

   Fifty-fifty chance, the surgeon said, looking at the CAT scan pictures on a
light box.

   Going into the examining room where Quinten and Carole were waiting, the
doctors explained that they were worried about the congestion in his pleural
cavity, which would make treatment more difficult and complications such as
pneumonia more likely.

   The team had decided he would not be the first test subject. He would be
second.

   They would have a much better idea of how toxic the vectors were at this dose
level in humans after Donald was treated.

   Quinten would be admitted during the first week of December, as Donald's
trial was ending.

   The doctors shook his hand and left.

   A little while later, Quinten and Carole were back in their car, driving
home, their belief in miracles still intact.

NOTES: THE QUEST: SEEKING AN ULTIMATE CURE
First of two articles, part of a series
of reports on gene-therapy research.
Tomorrow: Donald undergoes gene therapy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND DIAGRAM;

PHOTO (2)
1. Carole puts holy water on the chest of her husband, Quinten, once an
asbestos worker. Researchers are testing a new procedure on his chest cancer.
(The Philadelphia Inquirer, VICKI VALERIO)
2. As he packs for a stay at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania,
Quinten, 56, includes a photograph of his grandsons. (The Philadelphia
Inquirer, VICKI VALERIO)
DIAGRAM (1)
1. Gene Therapy for Mesothelioma (SOURCE: University of Pennsylvania; The
Philadelphia Inquirer, CRISTINA RIVERO)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              9 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   December 26, 1995, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: The Overselling Of Gene Therapy

BYLINE: Daniel S. Greenberg

BODY:


   Pipe down. You are overselling a new and unproven method of treating serious
diseases and are misleading the public into believing in miracle cures that do
not exist.

   That sounds like mainstream medical science assailing the quacks, as it often
does when mod ern-day snake oil peddlers prey on the public. But there's
something different about this one. It's the establishment talking to the
establishment. And the admonition, a disturbing indictment of mainstream medical
research, arises from the new era of super-hyped science, personal glory seeking
and overnight millionaires from biotech speculation.

   The reproach about overselling of medical treatments was recently delivered
by a committee of physicians and scientists appointed by the National Institutes
of Health (NIH), the federal government's world-re nowned center for health
research. Their message was directed at some of the country's most honored
researchers working in elite universities, hospitals and at NIH on today's most
publicized and promising field of medical science -- gene therapy. That's the
hopeful term for treating cancer, cystic fibrosis and other diseases by
replacing defective or missing genes.

   The message from NIH is also directed at the biotechnology industry, whose
stocks soar on good news, real or inflated, about developments in gene therapy.
And the NIH committee says it also applies to the press, which gullibly parrots
the cheery but flimsy claims of researchers working in gene therapy.

   With NIH providing $ 200 million a year and biotechnology firms spending at
least that much, some 600 patients have received gene therapy over the past five
years. The reports from the doctors treating them, though usually technically
accurate, have tended to convey a misleading impression of individual successes
and overall progress.

   But, in fact, no cures have occurred. And in the very few instances where
patients have improved, the contribution of gene therapy is open to serious
doubt, because other treatments were also involved. Which is why the director of
NIH, Nobel laureate Harold Varmus, citing the "meager" results of gene therapy
trials, commissioned a committee of experts last May to study the field.

   Their critique of the claims and realities of gene therapy, delivered on Dec.
7, invites wonder about how quackery should be defined. "Expectations about
current gene therapy protocols have been oversold," reported the committee,
co-chaired by Prof. Stuart H. Orkin of Harvard Medical School and Professor Arno
G. Motulsky of the University of Washington.

   Observing that "efficacy has not been established for any gene therapy
protocol," the committee warned: "Over-zealous representation of clinical gene
therapy has obscured the exploratory nature of the initial studies, colored the
manner in which findings are portrayed to the scientific press and public, and
led to the widely held but mistaken perception that clinical gene therapy is
already highly successful." The report also criticized the biotech industry,
noting that "overzealous, uncritical reports of clinical results are used by
industry to promote investment and perceived dominance."

   And, expressing concern for "the objectivity and integrity of academic
investigators associated with specific companies," the committee stated:
"Decisions regarding diseases to be treated need to be made by investigators on
scientific rather than financial criteria."

   The long-range outlook for gene therapy was rated exceptionally good, but the
need at present is to get back to fundamental research to develop a deeper
understanding of the basic biology that's involved, the committee stated.

   The hazards of overselling and claiming success, it warned, are twofold:
First, patients, hearing the exaggerated claims, are clamoring for treatments
that don't exist and are making family-planning decisions in the expectation
that gene therapy can fix genetic birth defects. And, second, public
disappointment can produce backlash against further support for what is, in the
long term, a highly promising type of treatment.

   The dangers cited in the NIH report are real, and the corrective advice is
sound. Furthermore, the stinging critique supports science's claims to be
self-policing, self-correcting and public spirited.

   But the problems cited have been visibly festering for a long time, and only
now have they been publicly flagged as unacceptable. The message for the public
is plain: Be wary of claims of medical miracles, regardless of their origin.

   Daniel S. Greenberg is editor and publisher of Science & Government, a
Washington newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1995


                              10 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          December 25, 1995 Monday All

SECTION: Cue & Health Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: New effort aimed at cystic fibrosis
 Scientists will use a different virus in latest gene therapy

BYLINE: JONATHAN BOR

SOURCE: Baltimore Sun

DATELINE: Baltimore, Md.

BODY:

   In the latest attempt to conquer the leading genetic killer of children,
researchers at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions have inoculated their
first patient in a trial of a gene therapy for cystic fibrosis.

   The scientists hope to overcome problems that have plagued researchers at
other universities who have used gene therapy to fight the disease, which
afflicts some 30,000 children and young adults. Patients suffer from abnormally
thick, sticky mucous that clogs their lungs and produces fatal infections.

   The gene therapies have employed a common strategy.

   Scientists equip viruses with copies of genes that instruct cells to perform
activities vital to healthy lungs. The viruses act as Trojan horses, carrying
the genes inside cells in the process of infecting them.

   Scientists involved in six previous efforts have used a weakened form of the
common adenovirus to carry mucous-fighting genes inside respiratory cells. In
its unaltered state, the virus causes colds and flu-like symptoms.

   Although the trials have not been declared outright failures, many did not
deliver the gene to adequate numbers of target cells. Several provoked
inflammations and triggered immune system attacks that killed cells carrying the
healthy genes.

   Physician Terence Flotte, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Hopkins,
said the latest trial employs a different virus one that resides naturally
inside most people without ill effects.

   The Hopkins researchers have chosen the adeno-associated virus as their
delivery system, hoping it will prove "a non-toxic way to transfer genes into
these cells without triggering inflammation," Flotte said.

   The first patient in the study, a young woman who asked not to be identified,
was inoculated this month. Researchers plan to inoculate a total of 12 people
over the next year in a trial that will measure safety and success in
introducing the genes.

   The disease once killed the vast majority of children by the time they
reached their teens.

   Many now survive into their twenties and thirties, with small numbers living
beyond that. Longer survival is attributed to better antibiotics and techniques
of physical therapy.

   Physicians use an ultra-thin tube to inoculate both nostrils and a small
section of lung. They began with extremely small doses that will become
progressively larger with each new patient, the last of whom will get a dosage
about 300 times larger than the first.

   Even at that point, the therapy probably would be too modest to produce a
therapeutic effect.

   "Our best-case scenario is that we'll be able to move up to a dosage level
where we will efficiently transfer the normal gene without any side effect,"
Flotte said. "If we can do that, then it can set the stage for a study that will
test the therapeutic effect of the gene."

   Volunteers spend two weeks in isolation after their inoculation. Later,
doctors study cell samples to see how frequently the genes reached their target
cells.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995


                              11 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                           December 24, 1995, Sunday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 686 words

BODY:


   Two Arkansans have been nominated as finalists for Rhodes Scholarships. Jacob
Abraham of Mountain Home is a senior physics major at Rhodes College in Memphis,
where he holds the Morse Scholarship and is chairman of the Rhodes Student
Senate. Celisa Steele of Fayetteville is a senior majoring in English and French
at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville, where she has been a Sturgis
Fellow and a member of foreign language clubs.

   The American Cancer Society, Arkansas division, has given grants to three
cancer researchers in Arkansas. Ann M. Benson, Ph.D., received a renewal of $
47,000 for her grant titled "Biochemical Mechanisms of Anticarcinogenesis."
Timothy C. Chambers, Ph.D., received a renewal of $ 51,000 for his grant
entitled "Protein Kinase C and Multicruy Resistance." Nikhil Munshi, M.D.,
received $ 200,000 for his grant entitled "AAV-Mediated CD16 Gene Therapy for
Multiple Myeloma."

   Dr. James B. Laird, a 20-year member of the Northeast Arkansas School Board
at Paragould, was honored by the Arkansas School Boards Association with its
annual Dr. Daniel L. Pilkinton Award for Outstanding Service to Public
Education.

   Jim Pickens and Dick Pickens returned to Little Rock as winners in the Lexus
Champions for Charity Golf Tournament. The two-man team, representing Pathfinder
Inc., competed with 160 other teams for charities nationwide and finished fourth
in the event. They presented a check for $ 6,000 to Colonel McLyle Zumwalt,
chairman of the Pathfinder board.

   Amy Newkirk, 16, from Stuttgart has been named Miss Arkansas Rice.
Contestants were judged on rice promotion and cookery skills, and on overall
knowledge of the rice industry.

   Richard B. Dixon, professor emeritus of history at the University of Arkansas
at Little Rock and a 1950 graduate of Rhodes College in Memphis, received
Rhodes' Distinguished Alumni Award for his outstanding contributions in the
field of education.

   Jordan Beard, a senior at Catholic High School, was nominated by Sen. David
Pryor to take part in the Sony Student Project Abroad. Beard was awarded an
all-expense-paid trip from California to Japan.

   Carl Rosenbaum has been elected to the post of Rotary International director
and will begin a two-year term in July, 1997. Rosenbaum, the first Rotary
International director from the Rotary Club of Little Rock, will be in charge of
70,000 Rotarians. As a Rotary International director, his duties will include
overseeing financial responsibility and good relations between Rotary
International and clubs.

   Ashley Trousdale of North Little Rock has been awarded a Trustees'
Scholarship, the highest level scholarship awarded to an incoming freshman at
Arkansas State University. A senior at North Little Rock High school, she plans
to major in animal science and enter the pre-veterinary medicine program.

   Little Rock Finance Director and Treasurer John Pryor has been reappointed to
the Committee on Governmental Debt and Fiscal Policy of the Government Finance
Officers Association. Pryor has served as a member of the committee since
January 1993.

   Stephen C. Jackson Sr. has been promoted in the Air Force to the rank of
senior master sergeant. The sergeant was also decorated with the Meritorious
Service Medal for outstanding noncombat meritorious achievement in service to
the United States.

   Billy G. Abbott has been promoted in the U.S. Air Force to the rank of master
sergeant. Abbott graduated in 1981 from Fountain Lake High school near Hot
Springs.

   Seven Arkansas students recently attended the U.S. Capitol Workshop in
Washington. These honor students spend six days attending workshops while
competing for scholarships. The students are Jason Irwin of Fort Smith; Kelly
May of Arkadelphia; Meredith Rolf of Conway; Laura Thornton of Hermitage; Ryan
Meyers of Fort Smith; Susie Taylor of Mabelvale; and Timothy Fallon of North
Little Rock.

   Pat Lile of Little Rock was among a select group of women leaders from across
the country who participated this year in Leadership America. Lile is the
executive director of the Commission for Arkansas' Future.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995


                              12 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    December 24, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BOOK REVIEWS, Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: AT THE LIBRARY

BODY:


   New and recommended at the Buffalo and Erie County Public Library:

   FICTION

 "Batman," Andrew Vachss

 "Fault Lines," Anne Rivers Siddons

 "The Golden Straw," Catherine Cookson

 "The Hundred Secret Senses," Amy Tan

 "Love Me Forever," Johanna Lindsey

 "Miracle in Seville," James A. Michener

 "Politically Correct Holiday Stories," James Finn Garner

 "A Southern Exposure," Alice Adams

 "Tom Clancy's Op-Center: Mirror Image," Tom Clancy

 "Zombie," Joyce Carol Oates

 NON-FICTION

 "About Time: Einstein's Unfinished Revolution," Paul Davies

 "Altered Fates: Gene Therapy and the Retooling of Human Life," Jeff Lyon

 "Angel Encounters," Karen Goldman

 "The Architectural Guidebook to New York City," Francis Morrone

 "The Autobiograpy of Santa Claus," Jeff Guinn, editor

 "The Beauty of the Beastly," Natalie Angier

 "Camera Clues: A Handbook for Photographic Investigation," Joe Nickell

 "Career Advancement and Survival for Engineers," John A. Hoschette

"Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life," Daniel C. Dennett


 "Fear of Firing," Richard Deems

 "First Ladies," Margaret Truman

 "How to Drive Your Competition Crazy," Guy Kawasaki

 "How to Find Your New Career Upon Retirement," Duane Brown, Ph.D.

 "I Am Spock," Leonard Nimoy

 "In the Arena," Charlton Heston

 "The Internet Business Companion," David Angell

 "Nice Work If You Can Get It: My Life in Rhythm and Rhyme," Michael Feinstein

"On the Trail of the Buffalo Soldier: Biographies of African-Americans in the
U.S. Army," Frank N. Schubert, editor

 "The Oxford Book of Women's Writing in the United States," Linda Wagner-Martin

 "The Packwood Report," Senate Ethics Counsel

 "Priest of Music: The Life of Dimitri Mitropoulos," William R. Trotter

 "Prodigal Soldiers," James Kitfield

 "P.S.: A Memoir," Pierre Salinger

"Rogue States and Nuclear Outlaws: America's Search for a New Foreign Policy,"
Michael Klare

 "The Romanovs," Robert K. Massie

 "Ukers International Tea & Coffee Directory"

"Underground Harmonies: Music and Politics in the Subways of New York," Susie J.
Tanenbaum

 "Victory and Deceit: Dirty Tricks at War," James F. Dunnigan

 "Work Your Way Around the World," Susan Griffith

   "The Yankees," Phil Pepe

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995


                              13 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   December 24, 1995, Sunday, 2 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
'Magic bullet' eludes researchers;
Lack of definitive cures is clouding genetic cancer therapy

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   It was always a long shot.

   When Earlene Scruggs came to the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center in the autumn of 1994, her options were
limited, and she knew it.

   She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in August 1992.  Despite
the best conventional therapy, her cancer had come back once,
then twice.

   The gene therapy that Drs.  John Kavanagh and Albert
Deisseroth offered was a chance for a cure.

   But on Oct. 9, 1995 - a scant year later - Earlene and her
husband Tommy Scruggs heard the bad news: After two rough
bouts of chemotherapy, a transplant of genetically altered
bone marrow and 12 treatments of the potent anti-cancer drug
Taxol, gene therapy was no cure for Earlene Scruggs.

   And so far, gene therapy hasn't cured anyone else, although
some patients, including Scruggs, have enjoyed longer or
better lives.

   But it isn't the ""magic bullet'' for cancer that the public has
hoped for - sometime encouraged by overenthusiastic reports
about therapies.

   Nine other patients with ovarian cancer and 20 with breast
cancer are undergoing the treatment Scruggs did.  For some, it
provided no benefit, and they discontinued it.  Others are
disease-free and continue in the program.

   For Earlene Scruggs, the results were disappointing.  But in
the week before Christmas, she said, ""I don't regret doing it.

   Maybe I will never know if it was worth it.  It's likely I
won't. ''

   The promise of gene therapy has inflated the hopes of people
with the most devastating kinds of genetic diseases and
cancer.  But a gap remains between dream and reality.

   Patients and doctors, though, say that it is too early to give
up.

   If another ovarian cancer patient asked Scruggs about the
treatment, she would advise them to try.

   ""If they were at step one, I would say go ahead and give it a
shot,'' she said.

   Scruggs has ups and downs.  Her most recent bout of
chemotherapy was made worse by a touch of the flu.

   Then she found that her CA-125, a protein measure that gauges
the progress of the disease, had gone up.

   The most difficult day was Oct. 9, when Dr. Andrzej Kudelka
broke the news that her tumor cells were no long being killed
by the high doses of Taxol.  Marble-sized tears rolled down her
face as she tried to absorb what she was being told.

   Ironically, the genetic alteration itself seemed a success.

   The multidrug resistance gene that Deisseroth and his lab had
worked so hard to insert into her bone marrow was doing its
work.

   As fast as the potent Taxol pumped into Earlene's body, the
MDR gene - a microscopic cellular pump - pushed it out of her
marrow.

   As the doses of drug rose, the level of disease-fighting white
cells in her blood remained high, protecting her from disease.

   Without the multidrug resistance gene, the Taxol would have
killed the bone marrow cells that give rise to those disease
fighters.

   Scruggs and her doctors hoped that with the multidrug
resistance gene protecting her healthy cells, the powerful
blasts of Taxol would kill all of the cancerous ones.  That
part of the therapy failed.

   Deisseroth, who has ramrodded the ovarian and breast cancer
studies at Anderson, does not really know how effective the
treatment is.

   Patients are still undergoing treatment; the data have not
been analyzed.  It could take a year or more before definitive
results are determined.

   But nothing has been lost by doing the study, and much has
been learned, he said.

   Of Earlene Scruggs, he said, ""She had a good year.  We don't
know what the course of her disease will be.  She is in a lot
better shape than she was in the beginning. ''

   But she wasn't cured, and that's what often stigmatizes this
newborn field of medicine.

   ""There have been no miraculous cures to date,'' said Dr. Arthur
Beaudet, a gene therapy pioneer at Baylor College of
Medicine.

   Yet, he supports involving more patients in such treatments.

   Worldwide, more than 1,000 patients have undergone gene
transfer treatment in more than 190 studies, according to a
recent international study.

   ""Although there have been no dramatic successes, I don't think
patients have been harmed,'' said Beaudet.  ""But unless we are
involved with patients, we will have no clear answers. ''
 Gene therapy, however, garners headlines and promises a
revolution in the treatment of disease.

   It is a real promise, but a premature one.  The false prophets
of gene therapy draw the ire of those in the field.

   ""There have been many examples where patients, doctors and
companies have advertised something as more effective than it
was from the standpoint of common sense such as: 'Did my
mother get better? ' '' said Dr. Gary Chase, a member of the
watchdog recombinant advisory committee of the National
Institutes of Health.

   As gene therapy progresses and more possibilities arise, the
questions of which patients and what conditions to treat will
become more difficult.

   At the December meeting of the RAC, members debated the future
of the field.

   One experiment was particularly controversial because
researchers want to treat women who carry the gene for a
disease called ornithine transcarbamylase.

   The sons of such women can inherit a lethal gene mutation that
kills early.  There are few male children alive with the
disease.

   Women can have a less dangerous form of the disorder, although
they carry the gene mutation.

   But many of the women have no symptoms and may never develop
the disease.

   The scientists proposed treating the women, even though they
might not benefit from the procedure.

   As Dr. Rochelle Hirschhorn , a RAC member, said, ""We might be
dealing with people who are essentially normal. ''

   The benefits and risks are easier to assess in patients who
have potentially lethal conditions such as cancer, she said.

   Dr. Mark Batshaw, the University of Pennsylvania researcher
who proposed the study, said he anticipated that women would
want to participate, no matter what the risk.

   ""Women had indicated they want to have the choice of
participating because it might help their children,'' he
said.

   He wants to develop the treatment because he treats
children who have the disease and has watched them die.  He
sees little difficulty with what he has proposed.  But
the problems become more difficult when no disease is
involved.

   Abbie Meyers, executive director of the Connecticut-based
National Organization for Rare Disorders who describes herself
as the public representative on the NIH's RAC, worries that
biotechnology companies will focus on correcting conditions
such as obesity or baldness.

   ""How do you restrict it to diseases? '' she said during the
RAC's December meeting.

   Dr. M. Therese Lysaught, an ethicist from the University of
Dayton in Ohio, agreed.

   ""One of the things that has increased public confidence in
human gene therapy so far is the argument that the initial
experiments would be for serious conditions.  There is a
medical reason for doing these therapies - not just baldness
or shortness. ''

   Soon, scientists will propose doing gene therapy in the womb
to correct defects before a child is born.

   Inevitably, germ-line therapy - changing the eggs and sperm -
will arise.  At that point, said Meyers, the specter of
changing the human race looms.  But before any of that can come to pass, the
biology must be
better explained, said Dr. Huda Zoghbi, a faculty member at
Baylor.

   Organ transplantation went through a similar period in the
middle and late 1960s, she said.

   Surgeons could transplant organs, but they lacked the
understanding of immunology needed to make sure that bodies
did not reject new hearts, kidneys or livers.

   It was not until the early 1980s that the mechanism of
rejection was understood and drugs to fight it were developed,
she said.

   Now, transplantation is an everyday technique that extends
thousands of lives.

   Eventually, gene therapy will occupy a similar role.

   Giving up now would be a waste.  Dr. Robin Weiss of the
Institute of Cancer Research in London sees it as an issue of
""missiles and warheads. ''

   Gene therapists need better missiles - ways of getting genes
into a high percentage of cells.

   Right now, scientists attach genes to inactivated viruses that
take them into cells.  But only a small percentage of cells are
infected by the virus-gene combinations, making the therapies
less effective.

   Often, the activity, ""or expression,'' of the gene in the cell
is lower than needed to correct a condition - another
indication that more laboratory work is needed, said Weiss.

   Gene therapy will develop as research cycles between patients
and the laboratory, said Dr. Kenneth Culver, a pioneer in gene
therapy at the NIH who now works with OncorPharm, a Maryland
biotechnology company.

   He, Dr. R. Michael Blaese of the NIH and Dr. W.French
Anderson, now with the University of Southern California in
San Diego, performed the first gene therapy for a form of
immune deficiency.

   They believe the treatment benefited the children involved,
but many others consider their results equivocal.

   The skepticism does not rankle Anderson.  ""It is all part of
the healthy evolution of the gene therapy field,'' he said.

   But patients are anxious for the promise to become reality.

   Betty Moser was one of the early patients in the Anderson gene
therapy study for ovarian cancer.

   After eight treatments with Taxol, she is apparently
disease-free and doing well.

   ""I am still optimistic,'' she said.

   The treatment has been tough, emotionally and physically.  In a
way, she has led a dual life for the past year.  Part of the
time, she has been able to continue as wife, mother and
grandmother.  But much of her life has been consumed with the
treatment she undergoes as a patient.

   She has four treatments with Taxol remaining, and she worries
about what will happen if the drugs stop working.  She wants to
know where she goes from here.

   But, like Earlene Scruggs, she does not regret her decision to
become a gene therapy pioneer.

   Neither woman was ready to give up a year ago, and both are
still fighters.

   Scruggs, 48, laughed as she recalled telling her daughter
recently that she wants her obituary to read that she died at
70+ years - after a long battle with cancer.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. Earlene Scruggs (color); 2. Earlene and Tommy Scruggs (b/w,
p. 11); 2. Carlos Antonio Rios / Chronicle

TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1995


                              14 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   December 24, 1995, Sunday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Elusive 'magic bullet';
Lack of cures clouds genetic cancer therapy

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   It was always a long shot.

   When Earlene Scruggs came to the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center in the autumn of 1994, her options were
limited, and she knew it.

   She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in August 1992.  Despite
the best conventional therapy, her cancer had come back once,
then twice.

   The gene therapy that Drs.  John Kavanagh and Albert
Deisseroth offered was a chance for a cure.

   But on Oct. 9, 1995 - a scant year later - Earlene and her
husband, Tommy Scruggs, heard the bad news: After two rough
bouts of chemotherapy, a transplant of genetically altered
bone marrow and 12 treatments of the potent anti-cancer drug
Taxol, gene therapy was no cure for Earlene Scruggs.

   And so far, gene therapy hasn't cured anyone else, although
some patients, including Scruggs, have enjoyed longer or
better lives.

   But it isn't the ""magic bullet'' for cancer that the public has
hoped for - sometime encouraged by overenthusiastic reports
about therapies.

   Nine other patients with ovarian cancer and 20 with breast
cancer are undergoing the treatment Scruggs did.  For some, it
provided no benefit, and they discontinued it.  Others are
disease-free and continue in the program.

   For Earlene Scruggs, the results were disappointing.  But in
the week before Christmas, she said, ""I don't regret doing it.

   Maybe I will never know if it was worth it.  It's likely I
won't. ''

   The promise of gene therapy has inflated the hopes of people
with the most devastating kinds of genetic diseases and
cancer.  But a gap remains between dream and reality.

   Patients and doctors, though, say that it is too early to give
up.

   If another ovarian cancer patient asked Scruggs about the
treatment, she would advise them to try.

   ""If they were at step one, I would say go ahead and give it a
shot,'' she said.

   Scruggs has ups and downs.  Her most recent bout of
chemotherapy was made worse by a touch of the flu.

   Then she found that her CA-125, a protein measure that gauges
the progress of the disease, had gone up.

   The most difficult day was Oct. 9, when Dr. Andrzej Kudelka
broke the news that her tumor cells were no longer being
killed by the high doses of Taxol.  Marble-sized tears rolled
down her face as she tried to absorb what she was being told.

   Ironically, the genetic alteration itself seemed a success.

   The multidrug resistance gene that Deisseroth and his lab had
worked so hard to insert into her bone marrow was doing its
work.

   As fast as the potent Taxol pumped into Earlene's body, the
MDR gene - a microscopic cellular pump - pushed it out of her
marrow.

   As the doses of drug rose, the level of disease-fighting white
cells in her blood remained high, protecting her from disease.

   Without the multidrug resistance gene, the Taxol would have
killed the bone marrow cells that give rise to those disease
fighters.

   Scruggs and her doctors hoped that with the multidrug
resistance gene protecting her healthy cells, the powerful
blasts of Taxol would kill all of the cancerous ones.  That
part of the therapy failed.

   Deisseroth, who has ramrodded the ovarian and breast cancer
studies at Anderson, does not really know how effective the
treatment is.

   Patients are still undergoing treatment; the data have not
been analyzed.  It could take a year or more before definitive
results are determined.

   But nothing has been lost by doing the study, and much has
been learned, he said.

   Of Earlene Scruggs, he said, ""She had a good year.  We don't
know what the course of her disease will be.  She is in a lot
better shape than she was in the beginning. ''

   But she wasn't cured, and that's what often stigmatizes this
newborn field of medicine.

   ""There have been no miraculous cures to date,'' said Dr. Arthur
Beaudet, a gene therapy pioneer at Baylor College of
Medicine.

   Yet, he supports involving more patients in such treatments.

   Worldwide, more than 1,000 patients have undergone gene
transfer treatment in more than 190 studies, according to a
recent international study.

   ""Although there have been no dramatic successes, I don't think
patients have been harmed,'' said Beaudet.  ""But unless we are
involved with patients, we will have no clear answers. ''
 Gene therapy, however, garners headlines and promises a
revolution in the treatment of disease.

   It is a real promise, but a premature one.  The false prophets
of gene therapy draw the ire of those in the field.

   ""There have been many examples where patients, doctors and
companies have advertised something as more effective than it
was from the standpoint of common sense, such as: 'Did my
mother get better? ' '' said Dr. Gary Chase, a member of the
watchdog recombinant advisory committee of the National
Institutes of Health.

   As gene therapy progresses and more possibilities arise, the
questions of which patients and what conditions to treat will
become more difficult.

   At the December meeting of the RAC, members debated the future
of the field.

   One experiment was particularly controversial because
researchers want to treat women who carry the gene for a
disease called ornithine transcarbamylase.

   The sons of such women can inherit a lethal gene mutation that
kills early.  There are few male children alive with the
disease.

   Women can have a less dangerous form of the disorder, although
they carry the gene mutation.

   But many of the women have no symptoms and may never develop
the disease.

   The scientists proposed treating the women, even though they
might not benefit from the procedure.

   As Dr. Rochelle Hirschhorn , a RAC member, said, ""We might be
dealing with people who are essentially normal. ''

   The benefits and risks are easier to assess in patients who
have potentially lethal conditions such as cancer, she said.

   Dr. Mark Batshaw, the University of Pennsylvania researcher
who proposed the study, said he anticipated that women would
want to participate, no matter what the risk.

   ""Women had indicated they want to have the choice of
participating because it might help their children,'' he
said.

   He wants to develop the treatment because he treats
children who have the disease and has watched them die.  He
sees little difficulty with what he has proposed.  But the
problems become more difficult when no disease is involved.

   Abbie Meyers, executive director of the Connecticut-based
National Organization for Rare Disorders who describes herself
as the public representative on the NIH's RAC, worries that
biotechnology companies will focus on correcting conditions
such as obesity or baldness.

   ""How do you restrict it to diseases? '' she said during the
RAC's December meeting.

   Dr. M. Therese Lysaught, an ethicist from the University of
Dayton in Ohio, agreed.

   ""One of the things that has increased public confidence in
human gene therapy so far is the argument that the initial
experiments would be for serious conditions.  There is a
medical reason for doing these therapies - not just baldness
or shortness. ''

   Soon, scientists will propose doing gene therapy in the womb
to correct defects before a child is born.

   Inevitably, germ-line therapy -changing the eggs and sperm -
will arise.  At that point, said Meyers, the specter of
changing the human race looms.  But before any of that can come to pass, the
biology must be
better explained, said Dr. Huda Zoghbi, a faculty member at
Baylor.

   Organ transplantation went through a similar period in the
middle and late 1960s, she said.

   Surgeons could transplant organs, but they lacked the
understanding of immunology needed to make sure that bodies
did not reject new hearts, kidneys or livers.

   It was not until the early 1980s that the mechanism of
rejection was understood and drugs to fight it were developed,
she said.

   Now, transplantation is an everyday technique that extends
thousands of lives.

   Eventually, gene therapy will occupy a similar role.

   Giving up now would be a waste.  Dr. Robin Weiss of the
Institute of Cancer Research in London sees it as an issue of
""missiles and warheads. ''

   Gene therapists need better missiles - ways of getting genes
into a high percentage of cells.

   Right now, scientists attach genes to inactivated viruses that
take them into cells.  But only a small percentage of cells are
infected by the virus-gene combinations, making the therapies
less effective.

   Often, the activity, ""or expression,'' of the gene in the cell
is lower than needed to correct a condition - another
indication that more laboratory work is needed, said Weiss.

   Gene therapy will develop as research cycles between patients
and the laboratory, said Dr. Kenneth Culver, a pioneer in gene
therapy at the NIH who now works with OncorPharm, a Maryland
biotechnology company.

   He, Dr. R.Michael Blaese of the NIH and Dr. W.French
Anderson, now with the University of Southern California in
San Diego, performed the first gene therapy for a form of
immune deficiency.

   They believe the treatment benefited the children involved,
but many others consider their results equivocal.

   The skepticism does not rankle Anderson.  ""It is all part of
the healthy evolution of the gene therapy field,'' he said.

   But patients are anxious for the promise to become reality.

   Betty Moser was one of the early patients in the Anderson gene
therapy study for ovarian cancer.

   After eight treatments with Taxol, she is apparently
disease-free and doing well.

   ""I am still optimistic,'' she said.

   The treatment has been tough, emotionally and physically.  In a
way, she has led a dual life for the past year.  Part of the
time, she has been able to continue as wife, mother and
grandmother.  But much of her life has been consumed with the
treatment she undergoes as a patient.

   She has four treatments with Taxol remaining, and she worries
about what will happen if the drugs stop working.  She wants to
know where she goes from here.

   But, like Earlene Scruggs, she does not regret her decision to
become a gene therapy pioneer.

   Neither woman was ready to give up a year ago, and both are
still fighters.

   Scruggs, 48, laughed as she recalled telling her daughter
recently that she wants her obituary to read that she died at
70+ years - after a long battle with cancer.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. Earlene Scruggs (color), 2. Earlene and Tommy Scruggs share
a quiet moment (b/w, p.11); 2. Carlos Antonio Rios / Chronicle

TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996


                              15 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   December 21, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. B22; BOB LEVEY'S WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: George Jr. -- and Children's -- Fight CF

BYLINE: Bob Levey

BODY:


   Our annual fund-raising campaign on behalf of Children's Hospital always
highlights patients who live in this area. But some patients love the hospital
so much that they return even after the family moves. My associate, Elizabeth
Terry, profiles one such youngster, who suffers from cystic fibrosis:

   For the Gardner family, 1991 was a difficult year.

   In January, George Gardner, a civilian Army employee, was called to the
Middle East during the Gulf War, leaving his wife, Barbara, and year-old son,
George Jr., at home in Frederick, Md. George Jr., who had seemed normal at
birth, began developing respiratory infections. His size and weight were well
below average. Barbara kept taking him to a physician, who diagnosed his ailment
as asthma.

   When George Sr. came home in June, George Jr.'s condition had not improved.
His parents took him to Children's Hospital for evaluation when he was 21 months
old. That night, pulmonary specialist Robert Fink called with bad news: The
toddler had cystic fibrosis.

   Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease that causes severe respiratory and
digestive complications. George Jr.'s parents hadn't known they were carriers.
Their daughter Elisheva, 24, is healthy.

   Barbara said the period after the boy's diagnosis was "a very traumatic
time." George Jr. spent a week at Children's for evaluation and treatment, and
Barbara remembers "crying every time I looked at him."

   Still, from the beginning, the pulmonary clinic staff were straightforward
and reassuring. "Dr. Fink gave me hope the very first night," Barbara said. "He
earned my confidence."

   According to the doctor, there is reason for the Gardners to have hope for
George Jr.'s future. Research advances and new medications have dramatically
lengthened the expected lifespan for CF patients. Seventeen years ago, when the
physician started working at Children's, the typical patient didn't live past
age 12. Today, CF patients are expected to live into their thirties, he said.

   The change can be seen in that once-rare invitations to high school and
college graduations, even weddings are becoming more common.

   The doctor said the first clinical trials of gene therapy for CF patients may
come by the end of the century. "We don't want to get too confident," he said.
"There's a group of patients it's too late for." But if it's successful, gene
therapy could halt the progression of CF altogether.

   Even so, George Jr. has a difficult road ahead . He must stay healthy long
enough to reap the benefits of future advances. CF demands extensive daily
therapy and medication. The boy takes some three dozen doses of medication a
day, including an aerosol medication for his lungs, antibiotics, enzymes to help
his digestion and vitamins.

   His father also performs physical therapy, which involves pounding on young
George's chest to loosen the mucus that collects in his lungs. Barbara said that
"if you were doing it on a mannequin, it would take 45 minutes." But on a
sometimes-squirmy little boy, it takes more than an hour each day.

   Robert Fink, the pulmonary specialist, sees George every three months to
monitor his treatment and development. The Gardners have learned to appreciate
the visits even more since they moved to New Jersey in March 1992. George Sr.,
now a civilian employee of the Coast Guard, was transferred there, and his son
had to switch doctors.

   Janet Kluft, a nurse in the pulmonary clinic at Children's, recalls Barbara
Gardner's calls over the last three years. Barbara would describe the treatment
prescribed by George Jr.'s new doctor, then ask Janet, "What would your
recommendation be?"

   Early this year, the Gardners finally reached an agreement with their
insurance company that allowed George Jr. to resume treatment with Robert Fink.
"We couldn't be happier," Barbara said.

   George Sr.'s job will soon move them again. The family has insisted that
wherever they end up, they must be within convenient driving distance of
Children's. "We will not leave here again," Barbara said.

   Despite his illness, George Jr. leads a mostly normal life. He attends school
full time and loves computer games and recess. His parents want him to enjoy his
childhood and have asked his doctor's advice on how to explain CF to their child
now that he is getting old enough to understand.

   "Our challenge is to keep him normal today and healthy 20 years from now,"
the doctor said, tapping George Jr.'s chart. "I'm hoping the patients this age
will be around when I retire, and beyond."

   Our goal by Jan. 19: $ 575,000.

   In the till already: $ 171,757.06.

   TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE CAMPAIGN:

   Make a check or money order payable to Children's Hospital, and mail it to
Bob Levey, The Washington Post, Washington, D.C., 20071.

   TO CONTRIBUTE BY VISA OR MASTERCARD:

   Call 202-334-9000 on a touch-tone phone. Then punch in K-I-D-S, or 5437, and
follow instructions.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1995


                              16 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                           December 19, 1995 Tuesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: LOCAL STORIES; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: ADVANCES FOR 1996: MAPPING HUMAN GENES, FIGHTING DISEASE,
UNDERSTANDING ECOSYSTEMSNEWS FOCUS 96 WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS SCIENCE AND MEDICINE
(1st of 8 parts)

BYLINE: RICHARD L. HILL of The Oregonia

BODY:

   Tuesday, December 19, 1995 ADVANCES FOR 1996: MAPPING HUMAN GENES, FIGHTING
DISEASE,    UNDERSTANDING ECOSYSTEMS

   NEWS FOCUS

   96 WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS  SCIENCE AND MEDICINE   (1st of 8 parts)

   Crystal balls aren't found in laboratories.

   Foretelling scientific discoveries and issues isn't easy, but a look at
present research and the educated guesses of experts provide a glimpse into
1996.

   To examine science's near future, we enlisted the aid of Jane Lubchenco,
distinguished professor of zoology at Oregon State University, and Dr. Robb E.
Moses, head of the medical genetics department at Oregon Health Sciences
University.

   The health of the planet and the health of humans will be at the forefront
of scientific endeavor, the researchers said. So look for important research
findings concerning the planet's ecosystems, global climate change, genetics
and infectious diseases.

   ``Ecological information and understanding are urgently needed,'' said
Lubchenco, a marine ecologist and president-elect of the 143,000-member
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

   ``Human activities are changing ecological systems in new ways, at faster
speeds and over larger scales than ever before,'' she said. ``Our health, our
economy, our livelihood and our future depend on the ecological systems which
we have taken for granted and which are being degraded at a frightening
pace.''

   Lubchenco said collaboration among various disciplines, such as human
health and ecology will become increasingly important in the coming year.

   Progress is being made in several fields of medical research, Moses said.

   For example, the Human Genome Project, a $3 billion effort launched five
years ago to map the body's 80,000 genes, already is reaping benefits.

   ``A payoff that is foreseeable, unrealistic a year or two ago,'' Moses
said, ``will be the identification of genes related to `complex' diseases --
those caused by the action of several genes and the environment. This will end
up including most of the diseases you and I would consider common and of
general importance.''

   Last year's grim news about the Ebola virus and the spread of infectious
diseases will remain a concern, Moses said, ``but there are reports of several
new classes of antibiotics under development'' to battle bacterial
infections.

   The search for an AIDS vaccine and treatments will continue. Human tests
may begin in 1996 of an experimental drug that has kept monkeys from catching
the AIDS virus. Dr. Che-Chung Tsai of the University of Washington Regional
Primate Center reported in the journal Science in November that the drug --
called PMPA -- protected monkeys from the virus even when it was pumped
directly into their bodies. PMPA is similar to the AIDS drug AZT.

   Medical researchers also will continue work on developing a strategy for
fending off the common cold. One research team led by Dr. Edward D. Huguenel
of Bayer Corp. is working on a simple spray using a modified protein found in
the nose to protect nasal passages from invasion by the rhinoviruses that
cause colds.

   One promising area of medical research, human gene therapy for the
treatment of serious diseases, proved disappointing in 1995, Moses said. The
therapy involves repairing or replacing defective genes in the body that cause
disease.

   ``The first rounds of tests are just ending with disappointing results,''
Moses said. ``The upside is that the systems work and need to be made better.
For the future, look for cancer and AIDS to be prime targets. Melanomas look
good for treatment right now.''

   Astronomers and other space scientists also will provide headlines in 1996.
Plans for the Hubble Space Telescope include looks at a number of targets:
Jupiter in February as a follow-up to the Galileo probe's observation of the
planet's atmosphere; faint and distant stars near the Big Dipper; the newly
discovered Comet Hale-Bopp; and additional evidence of black holes in the
cores of active galaxies.

   Earth scientists, meanwhile, will continue the hunt for a way to predict
earthquakes.

   During 1995, a group of Greek scientists said they detected strange
electrical signals in the ground prior to three large earthquakes. In
addition, Antony Fraser-Smith, a professor of geophysics and electrical
engineering at Stanford University, said this month that for the second time
he had picked up a sharp electromagnetic signal a month before a California
earthquake.

   The most important scientific news in 1996 won't just come out of the
laboratories of science, but out of the halls of Congress and other
policy-making bodies. Lubchenco and Moses cited a lack of money for research
and a lack of understanding about science as major concerns.

   ``Our piecemeal approach to management, to policy, to funding of research
and to problems in general precludes a thoughtful overview of the issues and a
comprehensive approach to address the most critical issues,'' Lubchenco said.

   ILLUSTRATION: Photo of JANE LUBCHENCO -- ROBB E. MOSESGraphics Chart By The
Oregonian and Source: Dallas Morning News (HUMAN GENOME  PROJECT)

   MEMO: 96 What The Future Holds

   The following fields overflowed: BYLINETITLE = RICHARD L. HILL  of The
Oregonian staff

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                              17 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                December 18, 1995, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;   Page 15;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Man Who Got Baboon Cells Is Doing Well, Doctors Say

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 17

BODY:

   Jeff Getty, the 38-year-old man who received a baboon bone marrow transplant
last Thursday in a risky experiment to battle AIDS, was "doing very well" today,
his doctors said.

   Mr. Getty shared a pizza with his family on Saturday night and had a big
breakfast this morning, a hospital spokeswoman said.

    Mr. Getty is in isolation in his room at San Francisco General Hospital as a
protection against infection while his immune system is further weakened
temporarily by the chemotherapy and radiation treatment he received last week.
The treatment was necessary to prevent his body from rejecting the baboon bone
marrow, which he is receiving because it is resistant to HIV-1, the principal
virus that causes AIDS.

   It will take months before doctors learn whether the transplanted baboon
cells can function to help restore his immune system and fight off the many
so-called opportunistic infections that can be fatal to people with AIDS. The
experiment is being conducted at the hospital, a unit of the University of
California at San Francisco, and the University of Pittsburgh.

   As the doctors examine Mr. Getty on rounds twice a day, they look for signs
of infection and for tiny specks of blood under the skin, known as petechiae,
which are evidence of internal bleeding caused by lack of a blood component
called platelets. The doctors are also checking standard laboratory tests of Mr.
Getty's blood for counts of white blood cells, which fight infection-causing
microbes, and of platelets.

   Today, Mr. Getty's blood counts were on the low side of what is considered
normal. The counts have dropped from last week's levels, as expected, because it
takes time for his own immune system to be suppressed by the chemotherapy and
radiation. The counts are expected to fall further over the next week.

   "The hope is that his white blood count goes very low, but only for a brief
period of time," Dr. Paul A. Volberding, an AIDS expert and one of the lead
investigators in the experiment, said in an interview. "If it doesn't go very
low, then we will worry that we did not give enough conditioning from the
chemotherapy and radiation."

   That conditioning is aimed at destroying much of Mr. Getty's marrow to make
room for the baboon cells. But the conditioning is not aimed at destroying all
of the recipient's marrow, as is done in standard human transplants.

   Crucial to the baboon bone marrow experiment is the discovery by Dr. Suzanne
T. Ildstad of Pittsburgh of a special type of white cell known as a facilitator
cell. Use of facilitator cells has helped the team retain cells that they
believe promote the transplant and remove the cells that they believe are the
major cause of adverse reactions to the transplant, Dr. Ildstad said in an
interview.

   Dr. Ildstad said that her team has used the facilitator cells in experimental
bone marrow transplants with five leukemia patients who could not have been
treated with standard bone marrow transplants. But Mr. Getty's experiment is the
first test of the facilitated bone marrow in a human recipient of a
cross-species transplant.

   A goal of the experiment is to learn how much conditioning is needed for the
baboon experiment as well as others involving gene therapies that the
researchers hope to do someday for AIDS patients. For reasons of safety, the
researchers purposely started with the lowest amount of chemotherapy and
radiation in Mr. Getty's case. But it could prove too much or too small.

   Dr. Marian G. Michaels of Pittsburgh said that if Mr. Getty's platelet count
drops too low, they will give him platelet transfusions. Baboons that received
similar conditioning treatment in earlier studies had low platelet counts for
only a short period and required few, if any, transfusions, Dr. Michaels said.

   If Mr. Getty's white count falls too low, he will be given a standard drug
known as granulocyte colony stimulating factor (GCSF) with the aim of
stimulating greater marrow production of white blood cells, or granulocytes.

   For two days last week, Mr. Getty received antibiotics to prevent
proliferation of a fungus known as aspergillus that can cause serious illness.
The fungus was in his body before the transplant.

   Dr. Steven Deeks of San Francisco General Hospital, another chief
investigator, said the riskiest time for Mr. Getty will be in two to four weeks.
That is when the immune suppression from the chemotherapy and radiation will be
greatest.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1995


                              18 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   December 16, 1995, Saturday, Final Edition

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Underfunded Research On Cancer Prevention

BODY:


   The Dec. 8 news story about the hype of gene therapy recalls the similar hype
about genes and cancer. The many expensive and elegant studies showing the
presence of altered genes in some human cancers inspire both hope and fear.
There is no evidence that these genes cause the cancers; they could equally be
products of the cancers which arise from other causes.

   Yet while this work is generously supported, efforts in cancer prevention and
the search for cancer-causing agents languish because they are grossly underfund
ed.

   WILLIAM LIJINSKY

   Columbia

   The writer is a retired director of the Chemical Carcinogenesis Program at
the Frederick Cancer Re search Center.


GRAPHIC: Illustration, margaret scott

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1995


                              19 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                           December 15, 1995, Friday

SECTION: News; Pg.  16

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: WEAKER HIV STRAIN STOPS THE SPREAD OF DEADLY VIRUS

BYLINE: By JOE NICHOLSON

BODY:


   Lab experiments have shown a weak strain of HIV can prevent the deadly virus
from reproducing a discovery that could help in the development of a vaccine,
scientists said yesterday.

   Researchers at the National Institutes of Health and Mount Sinai Medical
Center reported that HIV-2, a relatively mild strain of the AIDS virus found in
Africa, can stop reproduction of HIV-1, the fatal AIDS virus.

   The research was published in The Journal of Molecular Medicine. "This study
raised the possibility of an HIV-2-based vaccine for the prevention of HIV-1
infection," said a journal editorial with the article. Since HIV-2 also can
cause the disease, a vaccine probably would have to use a part or a weakened
form of the viral strain. It would be tested first in apes.

   Dr. Mathilde Krim, co-founder and head of the American Foundation for AIDS
Research, called the research "very preliminary.

   "It is more likely that there will be other gene therapy approaches that will
be more effective," said Krim, whose nonprofit organization provides $ 14
million a year for research.

   Jay Rappaport, the chief researcher, said, "In simple terms, we found that
HIV-2 turns off the gene for HIV-1."

   Rappaport, a microbiologist who left the federal government to work at Mount
Sinai during the two-year project, said it took about five to seven days for
HIV-2 to stop reproduction of HIV-1.

   "This important finding may be an early step in developing a gene therapy to
prevent AIDS," said a statement issued by Mount Sinai Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1995


                              20 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    December 15, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Dying AIDS Patient Gets Baboon Marrow Transplant

BYLINE: John Schwartz; Rick Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writers

BODY:


   A California AIDS patient last night embarked on a historic experiment,
receiving bone marrow cells from a baboon in a desperate attempt to jump-start
his immune system.

   The procedure has only a slim possibility of helping the patient and has been
attacked by some scientists and medical ethicists as opening a Pandora's box of
unknown health risks. But test subject Jeff Getty, a longtime AIDS activist, and
researchers fought skeptics and the public health bureaucracy to get the
treatment.

   "There's a remote chance that I will benefit from this," Getty, 38, said
earlier this week. "There's a greater chance that I will suffer." Still, he
said, "There is a chance that we could learn a significant amount about this
disease." Getty said that there are few treatments open to a late-stage AIDS
sufferers like himself, and that he was putting his life on the line "to try to
get some answers."

   "We're tired of watching our friends die," Getty said. "We need to move
forward."

   The logic behind the controversial experiment is tantalizingly simple:
Baboons are resistant to the AIDS virus. So researchers at the University of
Pittsburgh have taken baboon marrow and refined out two kinds of cells: "stem"
cells that mature into key components of the immune system and "facilitating"
cells that Pittsburgh researcher Suzanne Ildstad and colleagues believe will
suppress the natural inclination to reject foreign cells. Ildstad has
successfully transplanted cells from monkey to monkey, from baboon to monkey and
from human to baboon.

   Steven Deeks, of the University of California at San Francisco (UCSF),
infused the marrow mixture into Getty's arm via an intravenous line beginning at
8:37 p.m. PST (11:37 p.m. EST). Earlier, doctors had prepared Getty's body by
further suppressing his remaining immune response with chemotherapy and
radiation. The procedure took place at San Francisco General Hospital as part of
the AIDS research program of UCSF.

   If everything goes as planned, the baboon cells will ride through Getty's
circulatory system and settle into his bone marrow where they will begin to
function. The baboon cells would not rid Getty's body of HIV, the virus that
causes AIDS. Instead, researchers suggest that once the baboon immune cells take
hold in Getty's body, they would do the work that Getty's AIDS-devastated immune
system cannot. Results would not be known for months.

   Other researchers worry that the shock of the treatment will end up killing
the patient, or pass viruses into Getty and possibly others that, although
harmless to primates, could be deadly to humans. Many researchers believe that
HIV might have crossed into humans from African monkeys.

   "Baboons are an infectious disease nightmare," said Jonathan Allan, a primate
virologist at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research in San Antonio
and a leading critic of the procedure. "It's a virtual guarantee that baboon
viruses will be transmitted," said Allan, whose institution provided the animal
for the experiment. "One cannot predict what a virus might do in a new species,"
said Allan, noting that a herpes virus that merely causes reddened eyes in
macaque monkeys has a 70 percent fatality rate in humans and can kill within a
week.

   Responding to these concerns, the Food and Drug Administration met with
researchers last summer and approved the onetime procedure on the condition that
they find a baboon that was as free of viruses as possible. They also called for
periodic testing of Getty's blood for the presence of viruses previously unknown
in humans. Getty agreed to avoid behaviors that might spread new viruses to
others.

   Getty, an avid sailor, said that most people he talks to are highly
supportive of the experiment, though many express concerns, or resort to humor.
"If anyone has a good banana joke, I want to hear it, because I've heard so many
bad ones."

   Deeks said that Getty is an ideal candidate for the procedure because he has
studied immunology and is willing to take risks. "He really knows what he's
getting into; he's not blindly signing an informed consent form because he's
desperate to get a new therapy."

   The FDA is about to release proposed guidelines governing animal-to-human
tissue transfers, known as xenotransplants. In the meantime, said Philip
Noguchi, director of the agency's division of cellular and genetic therapies,
the Getty experiment could prove valuable so long as the researchers take every
precaution to ensure public safety. "We have [medical experimenters] who are
cowboys at the edge," Noguchi said, "but they do move everything forward."

   More than 30 xenotransplant experiments have been attempted since the turn of
the century. In 1992, an AIDS patient received an infusion of baboon marrow, but
died after the cells failed to thrive.

   Martin Stephens, an expert with the Humane Society of the United States, said
yesterday that his organization, which supports a great deal of animal research,
opposes the Getty procedure because it does not balance the risk to the animal
and the potential reward to humanity. "This could open up the floodgates for a
much gloomier scenario of assembly-line transplantation from animals to people."

   In this case, the baboon was killed so its tissues can be studied. But the
animals would not necessarily have to die to provide marrow.

   Other experts said the experiment has philosophical implications. Thomas
Murray, director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at Case Western Reserve
University in Cleveland, said, "There are lots of people walking around right
now with heart valves taken from pigs. That has not aroused a lot of public
furor." But a bone marrow transplant, he said, is "symbolically more important"
because the immune system is the epitome of individuality, the body's way of
telling itself from others.

   "If it becomes widespread," Murray said, "we're going to have a fascinating
debate about human identity."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1995


                              21 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.
                              Journal of Commerce

                          December 14, 1995, Thursday

SECTION: FOREIGN TRADE, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: LIFE FORM PATENT PROPOSAL BACK ON EUROPEAN AGENDA

BYLINE: SUZANNE PERRY; Reuters

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

BODY:


   The European Commission Wednesday resurrected controversial legislation to
guarantee patent protection for life forms, saying it had addressed ethical
concerns raised by the European Parliament.

    The Parliament last March killed an earlier version of the legislation,
eagerly awaited by Europe's biotechnology industry, after deputies criticized
provisions for patenting genetically engineered animals and inventions based on
uman body parts.

   The new text meets Parliament's demand for provisions allowing farmers to
breed genetically engineered animals for their own purposes without having to
pay the patent holder, the commission said.

   Internal Market Commissioner Mario Monti said in a statement the new proposal
attempted to strike a balance between the need to protect research investment
and to promote ethical practices.

   The commission first proposed legislation to provide legal protection to
biotechnology inventions in 1988.

   But it has been bogged down from the start by complaints it would lead to
animal suffering, commercial exploitation of the human body and give big
companies too much control over farming materials.

   One of the Parliament's major demands was that patents for human body parts
such as genes and cells be completely banned. A text agreed by EU ministers only
barred protection for body parts "as such" in an effort to leave the door open
to patents for elements that had been isolated from the body.

   The commission's new proposal, which must be approved both by the Parliament
and EU member states, strikes out the words "as such" and stresses that patents
can be awarded only for true inventions and not for discoveries of natural
substances.

   It also bans patents for "germ-line gene therapy," which involves the
insertion of healthy genes into a body's cells to replace defective ones, the
commission said. Germ-line techniques are controversial because they transmit
the genetic modification to the patient's descendants.

   The proposal stresses that a genetically modified animal may be patented only
if its suffering is proportional to the benefits that can be derived from the
invention.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996


                              22 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
SCHERING-PLOUGH TO BUY CANJI, A GENE THERAPY COMPANY

BYLINE: Reuters

BODY:

   The Schering-Plough Corporation said yesterday that it would acquire all the
outstanding shares of the gene therapy company Canji Inc. that it did not
already own, for $54.5 million. Schering-Plough holds a stake of 8.5 percent in
Canji and is developing cancer treatments based on Canji's scientific
discoveries. Schering-Plough will pay $54.5 million to stockholders of Canji, a
closely held concern in San Diego, in the form of newly issued Schering-Plough
common shares. Canji shareholders will be entitled to royalties on sales of the
new cancer treatments. Schering-Plough's stock fell $87.5 cents, to $58.375, on
the New York Stock Exchange.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1995


                              23 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          December 13, 1995 Wednesday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: La Jolla biotech agrees to buyout

BYLINE: CRAIG D. ROSE, Staff Writer, Information from Bloomberg Business News
service was used in preparing this story.

BODY:

   Canji Inc., a local gene therapy company, said yesterday that Schering-Plough
Corp. will acquire the 91.5 percent of Canji it doesn't already own in a stock
transaction worth about $55 million. Under terms of the agreement, Canji
shareholders will receive newly issued Schering-Plough shares and royalties on
sales of any tumor-suppressing gene products Canji is attempting to develop. The
agreement values all of Canji at about $60 million, Schering-Plough said.

   The transaction was approved by directors of both companies and is expected
to be completed in the first quarter. Madison, N.J.-based Schering-Plough
already owned about 8.5 percent of closely held Canji as part of a 1994
licensing agreement. Kenneth Cohen, chief operating officer of Canji, said the
acquisition will bring shareholders in the biotech company a return in stock
equal to about three times their investment.

   The 5-year-old company has raised about $24 million in capital. The San Diego
company hopes to develop cancer treatments using a gene known as p53, which
suppresses tumors.

   Cohen said that Schering-Plough is committed to keeping the development
project here and retaining most of its employees. Canji employs 51 people,
including 17 who hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees.

   The company's offices are in Torrey Pines. "Schering-Plough recognized that
people and intellectual capital are a biotechnology company's most important
assets," said Cohen. The chief operating officer, however, declined to discuss
his future or that of other officers at the company. Canji has demonstrated in
laboratory studies that placing a normal p53 gene into a cell infected with
cancer can end the cell's malignant state.

   The company hopes to begin testing the technology on patients with liver
cancer in the first half of next year. Cohen noted that Schering-Plough's
decision to acquire the company came as Canji was considering several options
for raising additional capital. "Schering-Plough intends to use Canji as a first
step forward in its gene therapy program," said Cohen. James McCamant, editor of
the Medical Technology Stock Letter in Berkeley, noted that other major
pharmaceutical companies have also embarked on p53 product development programs.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                              24 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)



                           December 11, 1995, Monday

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL & NATIONAL, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: CLINTONVILLE FAMILY BATTLES DEADLY LEGACY OF EYE CANCER

BYLINE: Mark D. Somerson, Dispatch Medical Reporter

BODY:


   When their son was just 2 weeks old, Shelbi and Chris Johnson were told by
doctors something they had prayed they wouldn't hear again.

   The tumor in Ethan's left eye was retinoblastoma, a cancer the Clintonville
couple know only too well.

   The Johnsons buried their first child, Alexise, in March 1994.

   ''We knew it was a risk, but we didn't expect it to happen again,'' Mr.
Johnson said. ''After one child has it, the odds are supposed to be in your
favor. But . . . both kids got it.''

   Despite what doctors thought was effective radiation treatment to combat the
cancer in 17-month-old Alexise's eyes, a tumor had formed in her brain. She died
within two weeks of the diagnosis.

   ''The first indication we had was around Valentine's Day,'' Mrs. Johnson
recalled. ''She had a cold but wasn't getting any better. Then she got
progressively worse very quickly.''

   Retinoblastoma is a hereditary malignant tumor of the retina, diagnosed
mainly in infants. The cancer occurs in about one in 14,000 births, but the
chances increase when a parent has had the disease.

   If not detected early enough, the disease can spread from the eyes to the
brain. Even if the cancer is stopped in infancy, though, the odds increase for
the child developing other cancers in adolescence.

   Mrs. Johnson, 32, lost both of her eyes to retinoblastoma, but has been free
of cancer since childhood.

   What triggers the disease is unclear. How and why the retinoblastoma gene
mutates to cause the cancer also are unknown.

   Long-Sheng Chang, an assistant professor of pediatrics and medical
biochemistry at the Ohio State University Medical School, is trying to answer
some of these questions.

   Chang is the principal investigator on retinoblastoma research being
conducted at the Wexner Institute for Pediatric Research at Children's Hospital.

   He has taken the human retinoblastoma gene, successfully cloned in the late
1980s, and placed it in mice to study its effects.

   Using a chemical agent he hopes to patent, Chang has mutated the gene that
causes retinoblastoma in mice, which don't get the disease naturally.

   The researchers have been able to predict countless probable inherited cases
by creating ''family trees.''

   Many questions, though, remain unanswered - including how the gene mutates
naturally.

   ''We want to understand how childhood tumors arise and what are the causes,''
Chang said.

   With some answers, the research could be used in gene therapy to correct the
problem before it starts.

   The work may be too late for the Johnsons, but they hope the disease can one
day be stopped.

   Meanwhile, the family awaits the results of 6-month-old Ethan's chemotherapy,
which he has endured once a month since being diagnosed.

   The countless tests and drugs don't seem to slow the little boy. At home, he
giggles and coos as he reaches for toys and rolls around the living room.

   ''If the tests come back clean this month, that should be the end of chemo,''
Mrs. Johnson said. ''That's what we're hoping for.''

   Keeping a positive outlook is important, she said.

   ''You just have to trust God. You can't sit around and worry. If I did, I
would be a basket case.''

GRAPHIC: Photo, Eric Albrecht/ Dispatch, Shelbi and Chris Johnson watch as their
son, 6-month-old Ethan, plays at home. Ethan is undergoing chemotherapy for a
tumor on his retina.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1995


                              25 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                    December 11, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BOX OFFICE

BYLINE: Phillip Pina

BODY:

    Disney's Toy Story continued to dominate the box office, raking in $ 13.5
million in its third weekend of release, according to Sunday estimates (final
numbers out today). Newcomer Father of the Bride Part II pulled in $ 11.4
million, followed by GoldenEye ($ 5.2 million), Casino ($ 3.7 million), and Ace
Ventura 2: When Nature Calls and Money Train ($ 3.3 million each).

GRATEFUL NO MORE: The Grateful Dead is breaking up after 30 years. The group
that defined a counterculture announced Friday it'll tour no more. The Dead lost
its anchor when Jerry Garcia died in August.

WALSTON JOINS WALK: Ray Walston is the latest star on the Hollywood Walk of
Fame. The actor - in his 70s or 80s, depending on which reference book you use -
plays Judge Henry Bone on TV's Picket Fences.

ONLINE SALE: Five limited-edition lithographs by famed artist Al Hirschfeld will
be sold off today in what promoters say is the first on-line auction.
Manhattan's Margo Feiden Galleries Ltd. will sell the signed lithographs of
American icons on America Online, (Keyword: AOL LIVE) at 3 p.m. ET. Lithographs
on the block include those of the Beatles, Madonna, Carol Channing, the Grateful
Dead and JFK. Only pre-registered buyers can bid.

WEAK THERAPY: Gene therapy has yet to live up to its promise, and more basic
work should be done in the field, a panel of scientists advises the National
Institutes of Health. While manipulating genes "offers extraordinary potential
in the long run" for treating human diseases, the advisory committee said
Thursday "clinical advocacy has not been definitively demonstrated." In a report
to NIH director Harold Varmus, the committee suggested much of what remains
unknown about gene therapy must be discovered for it to become a practical
treatment.

NET PROTESTS: On-line civil liberties groups are organizing a National Day of
Protest Tuesday, urging citizens to contact Congress
to oppose a move by a House panel last week to impose "indecency" restrictions
on the Internet and on-line services. "If enacted, the Internet as we know it
will never be the same," says an alert circulated Sunday on the Net. Among
sponsors: the American Civil Liberties Union, Electronic Frontier Foundation and
Voters Telecommunications Watch, an on-line group. A "Rally Against Censorship"
also is planned for noon today in San Francisco. More details at
http://www.hotwired.com.

SPIKE ON TV: Tired of what he says are cartoonish sitcoms about black life,
moviemaker Spike Lee is writing his own pilot for CBS, he tells TV Guide. Slim's
Table is meant to be a more accurate portrayal of American blacks. The drama
will showcase older black men who share life stories while sitting at a Greek
restaurant.

BLUE EYES BROWN: The Food and Drug Administration will consider a new drug to
battle glaucoma, a blinding disease. Latanoprost works better than current
therapy, but has one side effect: Blue eyes turn brown, as do green and hazel
eyes in 15.5% of 829 patients studied. An advisory panel recommended Friday that
the FDA approve the drug, but that the color change be labeled by maker
Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc. The company theorizes the drug increases the amount of
melanin, a colorizer.

FIT PRINCESS: Pumped-up Princess Di is the target of some royal sniping by
Prince Edward's girlfriend. Sophie Rhys-Jones told Britain's Daily Mirror that
Diana is spending too many hours in the gym. "She's beginning to look like a
gladiator," Rhys-Jones is quoted as saying to friends. "Her neck looks quite
thick now. She's put on three quarters of a stone (10 1/2 pounds) in just
muscle." Diana has raised the ire of the royal family by going public with her
marital woes, but Buckingham Palace is none too fond of Edward's choice either,
the Mirror said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, The Margo Feiden Galleries

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1996


                              26 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                December 10, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6;  Page 44;  Column 3;  Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Method & Madness;
Racing to the Top

BYLINE: By Nicholas Wade

BODY:

   SCIENCE HAS SO many wins and losses, fumbles and fist fights, that one often
wonders why it doesn't enjoy the following of a major sport. Of course, people
with a taste for watching boxers slug each other insensate may not appreciate
the somewhat more recondite slugfests between paleoanthropologists. But
scientists cannot reasonably blame the public for lack of fans: much of the
fault lies with scientists themselves and the way they play the game.

   That inattention to spectators' needs is a pity since all manner of exciting
races are shaping up: the mystery of the mind, the age of the universe, the
origin of humankind, the engine of plate tectonics, the molecular record of
evolution. Just a glance at what is drolly called the scientific literature
shows what is wrong. Scientific journals are where scientists report new
discoveries, cut up rivals and lay discreetly phrased claims to the next Nobel
Prize. Sounds like fun, right? But it's literature only in Oscar Wilde's sense:
"The difference between journalism and literature is that journalism is
unreadable and literature is unread."

    Scientific articles are often couched in a molasses of jargon and academic
code that make them impenetrable to outsiders. Here is the first sentence of an
article in last month's Science, a cynosure of the scientific literature:
"Vision plays an important role in notifying animals of imminent danger, such as
an impending collision with a predator or an environmental surface." The three
Caltech Ph.D.'s who framed that thought seemed to mean: "Without eyes, you'd
soon crash into a tiger or a cliff." Thereafter, they quickly segue into jargon
about "tau functions" and "DCMD neurons."

   Stilted prose like this is probably not inadvertent. The abstruseness makes
scientific problems sound more difficult than they are, and the authors sound
more learned. The jargon, though mostly a matter of convenient shorthand, also
proclaims membership in an academic guild. And the impersonal language is
assumed to lend the appearance of objectivity, as if, by avoiding "I" and "we"
and active verbs, scientists prove the unlikely point that they are detached
from any personal interest in the outcome of their experiments.

   The down-side of this bristly style is that few people read the scientific
literature for pleasure, despite its supposedly enlightening content. Nor are
spectators much enticed by the pace of the game. Like punctuated evolution,
science proceeds by means of occasional revolutions separated by years of slow
advance. Nature guards her secrets tenaciously. A century of study by armies of
immunologists has not sufficed to figure out the full strategy of the immune
system. The brain, an image-making organ that both simulates reality and keeps a
running record of what it has done, remains beyond comprehension.

    STILL, SCIENCE IS A RACE, even if the pace is slow. Unless the Dark Ages
return, each discovery can be made only once, giving the first scientists to
reach it a special place in textbooks, sometimes in history. Its finishes are
often eventful since important goals, like the recently discovered hormone that
pumps up the body's production of platelets, often attract several teams, each
of whose members may invest years of time in a winner-take-all race.

   A group under Mary- Claire King, from the University of California at
Berkeley, worked for years to isolate the gene that, in its defective form,
causes the type of breast cancer that runs in families. "We're obsessed with
finding the gene," she said during the race's closing laps. "I want it to happen
in our lab." But in September 1994, a dark-horse team led by Mark Skolnick, from
the University of Utah, snatched the prize from her grasp.

   The stakes in these fierce races have always been high for scientists. They
are becoming more relevant for the viewing public, too, thanks to a recent
development, one that can even be thought of as the culmination of science as
self-knowledge. Molecular biology has started speeding toward its ultimate goal
-- the full understanding of how the human animal is designed and assembled and
how and why it operates.

   For its aficionados, science is an array of competitive fields, some of which
are more entertaining than others. Geophysics can always be counted on for
surprises: its central theories have foundered twice within the last 30 years,
and its practitioners are prone to going down with the ship, haughtily spurning
all offers of rescue.

   Astronomy is in glorious crisis: there are now two incompatible dates for the
age of the universe, strongly hinting at a theory about to be sucked into a
black hole. Physics and chemistry are now mature and dignified subjects, with
only occasional flashes of surprise. But they have furnished the techniques for
biologists to take the exploration of life to its logical conclusion.

   This event demands a wider audience. The pattern of discovery cannot be
predicted, but the tool kit now in the possession of biologists is so powerful
that no known problem seems likely to hold its mysteries for long. By usurping
the tools with which living cells manipulate DNA, biologists can cut the genetic
material at chosen points and amplify target segments for further study.
Techniques and software for sequencing the order of chemical units in DNA are
now so sophisticated that the full human gene set seems likely to be sequenced
within the next 10 years.

   It is only a matter of time before biologists catalogue the 75,000 or so
human genes; identify the signals that switch each gene on and off; figure out
what sets of active genes characterize each of the 200 or so major types of
human cell, and determine how the consortium of interacting cell types operates
as an organism.

   Such knowledge has larger consequences than scientists can deal with alone.
Genes don't determine everything, but they set the boundaries of an individual's
full potential. They probably decree major elements of personality and
intelligence. They create a predisposition to various diseases. Knowledge of how
the human machine is assembled implies the knowledge to repair, refine and
improve it.

   The first attempts at gene therapy have mostly stumbled, but the technique
will surely be made to work eventually. The idea of correcting defective genes
is not particularly controversial. But a fundamental solution to the creeping
burden of Medicare -- equipping every embryo with a birthright package of genes
for good health, longevity and aversion to nicotine and violence -- would raise
knottier issues.

   Critics will doubtless warn darkly of dangerous knowledge. But more knowledge
is generally better than less. Molecular biology, long gathering speed, is about
to take off. It's almost ready to become a spectator sport, not just a private
club for academics and biotechnology companies.


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1995


                              27 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    December 8, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy tests on people challenged; NIH advisory panel urges
shift to more lab research

SOURCE: LOS ANGELES TIMES

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- An advisory committee to the National Institutes of Health,
while endorsing the "extraordinary potential" of human gene therapy for the
treatment of serious diseases, urged yesterday that federally funded research
shift its emphasis away from human experiments and back to the laboratory.

   Panel members, hinting that scientists may have moved too rapidly into
testing gene therapy theories in humans, said they believed that more can be
gained from investing time and money into basic science that precedes
application into humans.

   And they said the gene therapy -- in its current immature state -- has been
"oversold" to create the widespread public misperception that "it is further
developed and more successful than it actually is."

   Human gene therapy, which many researchers regard as the most innovative and
promising therapeutic approach for treating diseases in the future, involves
repairing or replacing defective genes in the body that cause disease, rather
than using drugs.

   Each of the approximately 50 trillion cells in the human body contains
information that directs its function. This information is stored in the genes,
which are made up of DNA, the genetic blueprint of life. When a gene is
destroyed or broken, the cell's function is disrupted or eliminated, and disease
may occur.

   There are several basic approaches to gene therapy. Scientists can introduce
a normal gene in an attempt to correct a defective gene, or replace a missing
gene. Or genes can be used to assign a cell a new function, or enhance its
current function.

   The panel was created last spring by NIH Director Harold Varmus, who asked
its members to study ways to improve NIH's investment in human gene therapy, and
report back to him. Mr. Varmus said their recommendations will be reviewed by
several institute directors within NIH before any decisions is made.

   Since the human studies began in 1990, 106 human gene therapy studies have
been launched involving nearly 600 patients, but they have produced no
definitive results, the panel said. Some of these studies have involved cancer,
cystic fibrosis and inherited immune disorders.

   Moreover, the studies have raised some problems that only basic science can
solve, the committee said.

   NIH currently spends nearly $ 200 million annually to fund research into gene
therapy approaches.

   Panel members said more work was needed at the basic level to refine the ways
in which genes are transferred into the human body. Most scientists use harmless
viruses as "vectors" to deliver genes to the appropriate blood or tissues, or
introduce cells that have been manipulated in the laboratory to harbor foreign
DNA. Problems can occur if the body's immune system, primed to fight microbial
invaders, attacks the transferred material.

   Also, better ways need to be found to "turn on" the gene once it is in the
body, a process known as gene "expression," the panel said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1995


                              28 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                    December 8, 1995, Friday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Gene therapy falling short of goals for now

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   While gene therapy holds great promise for the future, success
in patients today falls far short of expectations, a committee
of scientists reported Thursday.

   In a report to Dr. Harold Varmus, director of the National
Institutes of Health, the committee noted that basic work in
the laboratory must be done before gene therapy can become a
viable treatment for the many diseases to which it has been
applied.

   ""There was no criticism of people who are doing the studies,''
said Dr. Huda Zoghbi, a researcher at Baylor College of
Medicine who was on the committee.

   But she called for a realistic examination of where such
experiments have fallen short.

   The committee noted in its report that there has been no true
scientific evidence of effectiveness in gene therapy, although
some patients seem to have benefited.

   Like others in the field, she predicted that in the coming
months, researchers will propose fewer studies involving
people and take their questions to the laboratory.

   Zoghbi compared the current status of gene therapy to the
early days of organ transplantation.

   In the 1960s, transplants were technically possible, but they
failed because the body rejected the organs.  Scientists went
back to the laboratory and developed drugs that help prevent
rejection by disarming part of the immune system.  Then they
started transplanting again.

   In the same way, gene therapists must go back to the
laboratory now, she said.

   Dr. W. French Anderson, a pioneer gene therapist now at the
University of Southern California, said the public's
unrealistic expectations for gene therapy have led to
disappointment.  ""But that is the way new drugs are developed
-slowly and carefully. ''

   ""This is all part of the healthy evolution of the gene therapy
field,''he said.  He had not seen the final version of the
report, but was privy to an earlier draft.

   Dr. Savio Woo, head of the center for gene therapy at Baylor,
was not surprised at the findings.

   ""We need to pose a question rather than just choose patients
and see what happens,'' Woo said.

   The panel took a sober look at gene therapy, concentrating on
shortfalls in current understanding.

   To correct those, they recommended:

   More focus on how to get therapeutic new genes into cells more
efficiently and in greater concentration, and then making sure
they carry out their functions.

   Increased research on how disease occurs, development of
animal models of diseases and more study of the cells that
give rise to the various tissues of the body.

   Higher standards for studies involving people.

   Restraint by researchers when they discuss their findings or
their immediate hopes for gene therapy.

   Allowing gene therapy to continue competing with other
research for federal funds, but not guaranteeing dedicated
funding.

   The committee recommended collaboration with the biotech
industry and better coordination of such research to avoid
duplication of effort.

   But the committee did not criticize researchers for
experimenting with gene therapy.

   ""There is a clear and legitimate need for clinical studies to
evaluate various aspects of gene therapy approaches,'' the
committee wrote.


TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1995


                              29 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                     December 8, 1995, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 23; National Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: PANEL URGES GENE THERAPY RESEARCH SHIFT BACK TO LAB

BYLINE: By MARLENE CIMONS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   An advisory committee to the National Institutes of Health, while endorsing
the "extraordinary potential" of human gene therapy for the treatment of serious
diseases, urged Thursday that federally funded research shift its emphasis away
from human experiments and back to the laboratory.

   Panel members, hinting that scientists may have moved too rapidly into
testing gene therapy theories in humans, said they believe that more can be
gained from investing time and money in basic science that precedes application
into humans.

   And they said that the gene therapy -- in its current immature state -- has
been "oversold" to create the widespread public perception that "it is further
developed and more successful than it actually is."

   Human gene therapy, which many researchers regard as the most innovative and
promising therapeutic approach for treating diseases in the future, involves
repairing or replacing defective genes in the body that cause disease, rather
than using drugs.

   Each of the about 50 trillion cells in the human body contains information
that directs its function. This information is stored in the genes, which are
made up of DNA, the genetic blueprint of life. When a gene is destroyed or
broken, the cell's function is disrupted or eliminated and disease occurs.

   There are several basic approaches to gene therapy. Scientists can introduce
a normal gene in an attempt to correct a defective gene, or replace a missing
gene. Or genes can be used to assign a cell a new function, or enhance its
current function.

   The panel was created last spring by NIH Director Harold E. Varmus, who asked
its members to study ways to improve the NIH's investment in human gene therapy
and report back to him. Varmus said that their recommendations will be reviewed
by several institute directors within the NIH before any decisions are made.

   Since the human studies began in 1990, 106 human gene therapy studies have
been launched involving nearly 600 patients, but no definitive results have been
produced, the panel said. Some of these studies have involved such diseases as
cancer, cystic fibrosis and inherited immune disorders.

   The NIH spends nearly $200 million annually to fund research into gene
therapy approaches.

   Panel members said that more work is needed at the basic level to fine-tune
the ways in which genes are actually transferred into the human body. Most
scientists use harmless viruses as "vectors" to deliver genes to the appropriate
blood or tissues, or introduce cells that have been manipulated in the
laboratory to harbor foreign DNA. Problems can occur if the body's own immune
system, primed to fight microbial invaders, attacks the transferred material.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1995


                              30 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                         December 8, 1995 Friday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 3

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH AGENCY TO REVIEW RECOMMENDATIONS
 U.S. urged to return to basic work in labs
 Panel suggests testing gene therapy in humans promises too much

BYLINE: MARLENE CIMONS

SOURCE: Los Angeles Times

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

   An advisory committee to the National Institutes of Health, while endorsing
the "extraordinary potential" of human gene therapy for the treatment of serious
diseases, urged Thursday that federally funded research shift its emphasis away
from human experiments and back to the laboratory.

   Panel members, hinting that scientists may have moved too rapidly into
testing gene therapy theories in humans, said they believed that more can be
gained from investing time and money into basic science that precedes
application into humans.

   And they said the gene therapy in its current immature state has been
"oversold" to create the widespread public misperception that "it is further
developed and more successful than it actually is."

   Human gene therapy, which many researchers regard as the most innovative and
promising therapeutic approach for treating diseases in the future, involves
repairing or replacing defective genes in the body that cause disease, rather
than using drugs.

   Each of the approximately 50 trillion cells in the human body contains
information that directs its function. This information is stored in the genes,
which are made up of DNA, the genetic blueprint of life. When a gene is
destroyed or broken, the cell's function is disrupted or eliminated, and disease
occurs.

   There are several basic approaches to gene therapy. Scientists can introduce
a normal gene in an attempt to correct a defective gene or replace a missing
gene. Or genes can be used to assign a cell a new function or enhance its
current function.

   The panel was created last spring by NIH Director Harold Varmus who asked its
members to study ways to improve NIH's investment in human gene therapy and
report back to him. Varmus said their recommendations will be reviewed by
several institute directors within NIH before any decisions would be made.

   Since the human studies began in 1990, 106 human gene therapy studies have
been launched involving nearly 600 patients but have produced no definitive
results, the panel said. Some of these studies have involved diseases such as
cancer, cystic fibrosis and inherited immune disorders.

   Panel members said more work was needed at the basic level to fine-tune the
ways in which genes are actually transferred into the human body. Also, better
ways need to be found to "turn on" the gene once it is in the body, a process
known as gene "expression," the panel said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1995


                              31 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 8, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY IS 'OVERSOLD' DESPITE MANY FAILURES, SCIENTISTS SAY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Gene therapy as a treatment for human diseases has been oversold by
scientists and the news media even though it has been a nearly uniform failure,
a panel of scientific advisers told the National Institutes of Health on
Thursday.

   Although the manipulation of genes will almost certainly prove useful
sometime, huge gaps of knowledge must be filled before it becomes a practical
form of treatment, the panel said. More effort should be devoted to answering
questions in the laboratory, and less to trying out long-shot therapies in
patients, it suggested.

   "Strict adherence to the highest standards of excellence in clinical
(experiments) must be demanded," Stuart H. Orkin, one of the panel's chairmen,
said at a meeting of top agency officials. "Inherent in that is the suggestion
that we don't think that's been the case so far."

   Human gene therapy involves repairing or replacing defective genes in the
body that cause disease, rather than using drugs.

   Although couched in the decorous and circumspect language of science, the
panel's report is a stern critique of virtually everyone involved in gene
therapy. While endorsing the "extraordinary potential" of human gene therapy for
the treatment of serious diseases, the panel said scientists and the news media
had created the widespread public misperception that "it is further developed
and more successful than it actually is."

   Researchers were chided for, in some cases, jumping immediately from the
discovery of a "disease gene" to trying gene therapy, without first using the
newly found knowledge as groundwork for more conventional treatments. Heads of
the agency's many institutes were cautioned against promoting mediocre gene
therapy projects just for the status they confer. Both the news media and
research establishment were accused of exaggerating gene therapy's promise to
the public.

   Genes, made of DNA, reside permanently inside almost all cells. They encode
the biochemical instructions that allow a cell to make virtually all its parts.
These include structural proteins, such as those that make skin and bone;
carrier molecules, such as the hemoglobin in blood; enzymes that speed up
chemical reactions in living tissue; hormones that transmit signals; and myriad
other classes of biochemicals. Human beings have about 50,000 to 100,000 genes.

   Since the human studies began in 1990, 106 human gene therapy studies have
been launched involving nearly 600 patients. But the studies have produced no
definitive results, the panel said.

   The panel was created last spring by Harold Varmus, director of the
institutes, who asked its members to study ways to improve the agency's
investment in human gene therapy, and report back to him. Varmus said the
recommendations would be reviewed by several institute directors within the
agency before any decisions would be made.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1995


                              32 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    December 08, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy 'Oversold' By Researchers, Journalists; NIH Advisers Cite
Nearly Uniform Failure

BYLINE: David Brown, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Gene therapy as a treatment for human diseases has been "oversold" by
scientists and the news media even though it has been a nearly uniform failure,
a panel of scientific advisers told the head of the National Institutes of
Health yesterday.

   Although the manipulation of genes will almost certainly prove useful
sometime, huge gaps of knowledge must be filled in before it becomes a practical
form of treatment. More effort should be devoted to answering questions in the
laboratory, and less to trying out long-shot therapies in patients, the panel
suggested.

   "Strict adherence to the highest standards of excellence in clinical
[experiments] must be demanded," Stuart H. Orkin, one of the panel's chairmen,
told a meeting of top NIH officials. "Inherent in that is the suggestion that we
don't think that's been the case so far."

   Although couched in the decorous and circumspect language of science, the
panel's report is a stern critique of virtually everyone involved in gene
therapy.

   Researchers were chided for, in some cases, jumping immediately from the
discovery of a "disease gene" to trying gene therapy, without first using the
newfound knowledge as groundwork for more conventional treatments. Heads of
NIH's many institutes were cautioned against promoting mediocre gene therapy
projects just for the status they confer. Both the news media and research
establishment were accused of exaggerating gene therapy's "promise" to a
gullible public.

   Genes, made of DNA, reside permanently inside nearly all cells. They encode
the biochemical instructions that allow a cell to make virtually all of its
parts. These include structural proteins, such as those that make skin and bone;
carrier molecules, such as the hemoglobin in blood; enzymes that speed up
chemical reactions in living tissue; hormones that transmit signals; and myriad
other classes of biochemicals. Human beings have an estimated 50,000 to 100,000
genes.

   Gene therapy is a general term for treatments that attempt to cure or
alleviate disease by manipulating genes. As a practical matter, this almost
always consists of introducing genes into cells -- either to give the latter a
capability they lack, or to direct cellular behavior in a particular way.

   The first gene transfer experiments on human beings began five years ago. By
June of this year there had been 106 studies, involving 597 patients, approved
by the NIH committee that reviews their safety. All gene therapy studies done so
far (or even seriously contemplated) involve "somatic" cells, which are
incapable of passing man-made genetic alterations to a patient's offspring. Even
if completely successful, the changes wrought by gene therapy die with the
person who got the treatment.

   Although the first gene therapy experiment was performed by NIH researchers
in Bethesda, many of the subsequent ones have been done by scientists elsewhere
in the country whose studies are funded, in part, by the federal agency. NIH
spends about $ 200 million of its $ 11 billion budget on gene therapy. Private
biotechnology companies spend roughly an additional $ 200 million.

   "While the expectations and the promise of gene therapy are great, clinical
efficacy has not been definitively demonstrated at this time in any gene therapy
protocol," wrote the 14 members of the panel, who worked seven months in
preparing the report for NIH Director Harold Varmus.

   The group noted that even in the field's best-known "success story" -- the
treatment of two girls with a rare disease called ADA deficiency -- the results
are ambiguous. Both patients have relatively mild cases of the disorder, and are
receiving conventional medical treatment -- which appears to be helping them --
along with gene therapy.

   The advisory committee, which consisted entirely of scientists, noted that
delivery of genes to cells is the major hurdle facing gene therapy. Scientists
have tried many vehicles, or "vectors," primarily viruses capable of attaching
to a cell's membrane and then injecting their genes inside. To date, however,
the rate of successful gene transfer has been very low, and in some cases the
virus vector has itself caused problems, notably inflammation in the patients
getting the treatment.

   The very low rate of gene transfer has made it difficult for researchers to
judge whether the various gene "payloads" being delivered are actually doing any
good, or, in some cases, whether they are even hitting the target cells.

   "If you get no gene transfer, you get no information," Orkin said at a news
briefing after the presentation to Varmus. "How many of those studies do you
need?"

   In the report, the panel urged "vigorous and expanded research aimed at
developing improved vectors," and added that it is "unlikely that a single
vector will prove optimal for all gene therapy approaches."

   The panel also noted that finding new genes opens a world of potential
insight that should not be overlooked in a rush to manipulate them.

   As an example, it recounted how the discovery (more than a decade ago) of a
rare genetic defect that causes high cholesterol has led to understanding the
body's complicated mechanisms for regulating cholesterol levels. That, in turn,
led to a class of drugs, now widely in use, that lowers the risk of heart
disease. If researchers had leaped from genetic defect to gene therapy, both the
biological knowledge and the useful drug might not have been found as quickly as
they were.

   The panel did not recommend an end to tests of gene therapy in humans. It
noted that some diseases exist only in people, so gene therapies for them cannot
be tried first in animals, the traditional starting place for new treatments. In
general, however, the advisers suggested that more emphasis be put on
"preclinical" research -- laboratory studies that would precede testing in
people. They also said that the amount of money NIH spends in the field is
"appropriate."

   Part of the public enthusiasm for gene therapy stems from the Human Genome
Project, the 15-year effort to map and sequence all human genes. Genes that in
mutant form can cause disease are being found almost weekly. Often the
discoveries are announced with great fanfare -- and with an implication they
will lead, almost inevitably, to treatments.

   Almost certainly, however, the practical payoff of the Human Genome Project
will be the basic physiology it helps elucidate, not the treatments it produces.
Many diseases whose genetic underpinnings are now being uncovered will remain
untreatable for the indefinite future.

   The panel noted that "raising . . . false hopes threatens public support,
particularly if effective therapies for . . . common [genetic] disorders are not
quickly delivered, and may encourage patients and their families to make unwise
decisions." An example of that was offered by a physician at yesterday's
meeting.

   David Valle, a pediatrician at Johns Hopkins Hospital, has a patient with a
rare genetic disease called ornithine aminotransferase deficiency, which usually
causes blindness by age 40. Degeneration of the retina, or back of the eye, can
be slowed, and perhaps stopped, with a diet that severely limits protein.
Patients should not eat meat, milk or eggs. The diet is not popular.

   "I had a guy who came to my office recently and said, 'Well, I stopped the
diet,' " Valle recounted. "I asked him why, and he said, 'Because I thought you
guys were going to be doing gene therapy in the next few months.' My advice to
these patients is: Try to stay on the diet as well as you can, so that if and
when gene therapy becomes available you have as much retina left as possible."

LOAD-DATE: December 08, 1995


                              33 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                           December 7, 1995 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. D09

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: FOUNDATION WILL HONOR MEDICAL RESEARCHERS

BODY:

   Thursday, December 7, 1995 FOUNDATION WILL HONOR MEDICAL RESEARCHERS

   Summary: Dr. Edward A. Neuwelt and John C. Crabbe will receive  Discovery
Awards for their work

   Two scientists with Oregon Health Sciences University and the Veterans
Affairs Medical Center will receive Discovery Awards from the Medical Research
Foundation of Oregon.

   Dr. Edward A. Neuwelt, a neurologist at the VA Medical Center and a
professor of neurology at OHSU, and John C. Crabbe, a research scientist at  the
medical center and a professor of medical psychology at OHSU, will be  presented
the awards at the foundation's annual banquet Dec. 13.

   Each will receive $5,000 prize.

   Nationally known for his pioneering work in the treatment of brain tumors,
Neuwelt has developed a method for delivering chemotherapeutic drugs to brain
tumors by temporarily opening the brain's blood-brain barrier. The barrier
protects the brain by excluding most toxins and germs, but also prevents most
therapeutic drugs from entering the brain.

   Neuwelt is researching techniques for delivering genes across the
blood-brain barrier so gene therapy can be used to destroy brain tumors.

   Crabbe has been the leader of a team of investigators working to identify
genes implicated in an individual's response to alcohol and other drugs of
abuse. A major emphasis of their research centers on using animal models to
study the genetic control of drug sensitivity.

   Crabbe's team has been able to identify specific genetic markers in mice
that are associated with susceptibility to alcohol's effects as well as  genetic
markers associated with resistance to alcohol's effects.

   Dr. J. David Bristow, professor emeritus of cardiology at OHSU, will  receive
the foundation's Mentor Award.

   Bristow served as chairman of the Department of Medicine from 1971 to 1975
and headed the cardiology program from 1981 to 1992, when he retired. He
received a National Mentor Award from Bayer Inc. six years ago for training
cardiologists who became successful researchers.

   ILLUSTRATION: PHotos of EDWARD A. NEUWELT  JOHN C. CRABBE  J. DAVID BRISTOW

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                              34 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   December 5, 1995, Tuesday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Separate approval best in gene study, panel says

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md.

BODY:

   BETHESDA, Md. - The public would be in the dark about the
direction of gene therapy if federal approval of such
experiments disappears into the secretive jurisdiction of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, approval committee members
warned Monday.

   Members of the National Institute of Health's recombinant
advisory committee and academic scientists split with
representatives of biotech firms over the role the group
should play in approving future gene therapy trials.

   The federal agency - known as the RAC -voted to tell NIH
director Harold Varmus that it wanted to continue to approve
gene therapy studies that represent new uses of the science or
applications of the technique to new diseases.  Gene therapy
means introducing a foreign gene into the genetic material of
tissues in order to treat a disease such as cancer or
inherited problems such as cystic fibrosis.

   The RAC also voted to back a report to Varmus that
recommended:

   That the RAC no longer carry out case-by-case review of
every gene therapy study because that duplicates the efforts
of the FDA.

   The RAC should openly review studies when they depart
significantly from previous studies - such as when new kinds
of viruses are being considered for use in taking genes into
cells or when genes are being transferred in new ways.

   The RAC should continue to advise the NIH director on the
future of gene therapy, but it should not be incorporated into
the FDA.

   A method should be devised to make certain that the RAC be
provided with the data it needs to continue monitoring gene
therapy studies.

   Currently, if such data are reported to the FDA, they are
considered proprietary to the companies or institutions
reporting them.  They are not made public.

   Varmus can respond to the committee's report in three ways.  He
can leave the RAC as it is, restrict it to studies of policy
matters only or abolish the committee.

   Dr. Stephen Straus, a RAC member and chief of the laboratory
of clinical investigations of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said the move to curtail the
RAC's authority is ""driven by industry that puts its own
proprietary interests first. ''

   In a letter to the RAC, the biotechnology industry
organization, or BIO, admitted as much.  Alan Goldhammer, its
director of technical affairs, said his organization had been
pushing for changes in the way the RAC reviews protocols.  BIO
specifically objected to the move to make information about
the conduct of human trials of gene therapy public before the
studies are finished, Goldhammer said.

   Usually, the RAC approves a study first, looking at issues of
safety and patient protection.  Then the study is submitted to
the FDA with scientific rationale included along with
information about how the genes and the viruses used to take
them into cells are manufactured.

   In other action, the RAC approved a study proposed by D.
Gabriel Hortobagyi and colleagues at the University of Texas
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center for the treatment of late-stage
breast and ovarian cancer.  It also approved new data submitted
for a brain cancer study proposed by Drs.  Savio Woo and Robert
Grossman at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.


TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996


                              35 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    December 04, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F11

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: For High-Tech Start-Ups, Something Ventured and Something Gained

BYLINE: Kara Swisher , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   In Thorton Wilder's "The Matchmaker," now playing at the District's Arena
Stage, the main character utters this unforgettable line at the very end of the
comedy:

   "Money, pardon my expression, is like manure," Dolly Gallagher Levi archly
notes. "It's not worth a thing unless it's spread about, encouraging young
things to grow."

   For 10 Washington area start-up companies, many of them specializing in high
technology, such a sentiment is appropriate because their coffers recently have
been fattened by $ 41.3 million from venture capital firms nationwide.

   According to the Price Waterhouse LLP National Venture Capital Survey,
investment in third quarter totaled $ 1.59 billion from 410 venture firms to 380
companies in 15 industries. The survey was conducted by Price Waterhouse's
Washington office.

   For small start-up firms, the financial fertilizer provided by investment
companies is vital. Many of the entrepreneurial businesses, finding it difficult
and even costly to get money from banks for sometimes risky ideas, cannot grow
without help from these professional investors who use money from a pool of
clients.

   In exchange for their risk-taking, venture capitalists get a piece of
ownership in a company. If the bet is a good one, they can make big returns. If
not -- and about half of all start-ups end up failing, according to various
surveys -- they can lose just as big.

   "This [past] quarter confirms the idea that the venture capital market is
still hot," said Lawrence Alleva, chairman of the Southeast region of Price
Waterhouse's high-tech group. "A lot of players are willing to invest in
emerging technology companies, something that is underscored by the boom in this
area in the stock market."

   But investment in the third quarter was down compared with $ 2.12 billion
nationwide in the second quarter. Venture capital doled out the first quarter
came to $ 1.49 billion.

   For the third quarter, the Washington area only represented 2.6 percent of
the total percentage of companies that received investments. Not surprisingly,
Northern California's Silicon Valley led the pack, with 19.4 percent of the
company total -- 74 companies getting $ 351.1 million. It was followed by New
England, New York, Texas and Philadelphia.

   Technology companies got the most money, with investments in medical
instruments and devices and environmental companies also making large gains. In
the biotechnology area, Washington scored high, accounting for more than 10
percent of the total dollars.

   One of the biotech beneficiaries was Rockville-based GenVec Inc., a firm
specializing in gene therapy that got the top amount of investment dollars in
the area: $ 12.4 million.

   "The money is an important part of how we finance the business," said
GenVec's chief financial officer, Steve Mayer. "Financing like this gives us a
nearly two-year horizon for ongoing operations."

   Alleva of Price Waterhouse said it is encouraging that the Washington area
got a steady stream of money, though much of it is still from venture
capitalists outside the region.

   "The money still comes in, so investors know that there is real opportunity
in the area," he said. "But not enough comes from those who set up here and get
to know it." *


GRAPHIC: Chart, WHO GOT THE MONEY: AREA COMPANIES THAT RECEIVED THE LARGEST
AMOUNT OF VENTURE CAPITAL IN THE THIRD QUARTER Company ElderHealth Headquarters
Inc.Columbia What it does Health care Investors New Enterprise Associates,
Frontenac Co.  Amt. raised $8.1 million Type of financing First stage Company
American Psych Systems Headquarters Bethesda What it does Mental-health firm
Investors Nazem & Co Amt. raised $7.2 million Type of financing Second stage
Company Argotyche LP Headquarters Washington What it does Researches and tests
computer hardware Investors Rho Management, Gibraltar Trust, Texas Growth Fund
Amt. raised $6.5 million Type of financing Buyout Company Bicycle Exchange Inc.
Headquarters Alexandria What it does Specialty retailer Investors Interwest
Partners Amt. raised $2.9 million Type of financing Third stage Company Visual
Networks Headquarters Rockville What it does Computer testing Investors NEPA
Venture Fund Amt. raised $2 million Type of financing Second stage SOURCE: Price
Waterhouse LLP

LOAD-DATE: December 04, 1995


                              36 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times



              December 3, 1995, SUNDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; BUSINESS LAST WEEK; CHICAGO; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 430 words

BODY:


   Baxter to Split into 2 Firms

   Baxter International Inc. announced plans to split into two $ 5 billion
companies, adding its name to a list of conglomerates that have decided smaller
is better. The new Baxter International will remain based in Deerfield and focus
on high-growth medical technologies that include gene therapy, blood products,
heart valves, intravenous systems and Baxter's international business.  The
other company, still to be named, will handle distribution of all Baxter
products, production of surgical instruments and gowns and cost-management
initiatives with hospitals.

   Dutch Publisher Buying CCH

   CCH Inc. of north suburban Riverwoods, which provides tax and business law
information, software and services, said it has agreed to be acquired by Dutch
publisher Wolters Kluwer NV for $ 1.9 billion.  The acquisition would make
Wolters Kluwer, with expected revenues of $ 2.4 billion for the year, one of the
world's leading producers of electronic and print products for legal, tax and
health care professionals.

   Bliss & Laughlin Vote Set Shareholders of Bliss & Laughlin Industries Inc.
will meet Jan. 18 to vote on a proposal to merge with a subsidiary of BRW Steel
Corp. Shareholders of record as of Dec. 19 are eligible to vote at the special
meeting, the Harvey-based maker of cold steel bars said. In unrelated business,
the company said it reached a new collective bargaining agreement with the
United Steelworkers of America.

   Burrell Buying N.Y. Ad Agency

   Chicago's largest African-American advertising agency is branching out to the
Big Apple.  Burrell Communications acquired New York-based DFA Communications --

 a move that gives Burrell a presence in Manhattan and expands its marketing
focus beyond black consumers for the first time in its 25-year history.  DFA, a
full-service ad agency with $ 25 million in annual billings, is best known for
its direct-response business.

   ; U.S. Robotics Expanding

   U.S. Robotics Corp. said it will invest about $ 40 million to open a major
technology plant in Mount Prospect, adding about 1,500 jobs.  The Skokie-based
company will nearly double its work force in Illinois, creating jobs ranging
from clerical help to technical and sales positions during the next few years at
a 650,000-square-foot plant it expects to begin operating early next year.

   2 Thrifts Merging

   Two of the Chicago area's oldest community savings and loans, Mid-America
Federal Savings Bank and Northwestern Savings, are merging in a $ 277.2 million
deal that will create the area's ninth-largest thrift.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1995


                              37 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 December 1, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Billionaire's Gift Helps Columbia to Exceed Its Fund-Raising Goal

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

BODY:

   Alfred Lerner is one of America's wealthiest men, with a net worth of $1
billion gained in real estate and banking. But he started life in the back of a
Queens candy store run by his parents. Looking back, he credits his four years
as an undergraduate at Columbia University with setting him on a path toward
many of life's riches.

   "Whatever good fortune I have, Columbia was part of that, so I owe them
something," said Mr. Lerner, 62, the chairman and chief executive of the MBNA
Corporation, one of the nation's largest credit-card issuing companies.

    Mr. Lerner, in fact, decided he owed Columbia about $25 million. And with a
gift in that amount, as well as tens of thousands of others from grateful
alumni, Columbia will announce today that it has surpassed its five-year goal of
raising $1.15 billion. Rather than taking a breather as most universities do, it
plans to exploit momentum and buttonhole enough moguls and dial enough alumni to
raise another billion before the century is through.

   The robust flavor of the announcement seemed to broadcast the university's
belief that it has worked its way out of the troubles that culminated roughly
five years ago, when several unbalanced budgets forced it to bite into its
endowment and close a few departments. Its drawing power, some national experts
say, seemed to slip sometime after the student demonstrations of the late 1960's
as more students tended to spurn urban universities, some of its alumni left the
New York City area -- the base of 35 percent of Columbia's student body -- and
colleges like Stanford, Duke and Rice gained new appeal.

   But in the last two years, officials said, the school has a 29 percent surge
in applications and has balanced its budget.

   "Columbia College is becoming one of the hot schools in America," said Dr.
George Rupp, the university's president, in an address he plans to deliver
tonight to benefactors. "Many of the best students increasingly want to be here.
They want to be in the world's media center; they want to be near the financial
markets; they want the exciting arts and cultural richness; they want to live in
a diverse community that is at the heart of a profoundly dynamic global
economy."

   The $1.15 billion will be put to a multitude of uses, though almost half of
it is to go to operate the university and help avoid increases in tuition, room
and board, which now total $27,126 a year for Columbia College. And Dr. Rupp
disclosed that the college, the smallest of the Ivy League schools with 3,400
undergraduate students, is contemplating expanding its enrollment by roughly 10
percent.

   Butler Library, among the world's largest collections of books, will be
spruced up at a cost of $160 million and carried further into the digital age.

   The School of Arts will be renovated with a $6 million gift from artist LeRoy
Neiman. More than a hundred professorships will be given stable endowments that
officials said would help hold down tuition.

   And Ferris Booth Hall will be torn down and replaced with a sunnier, more
spacious student center named after, yes, Mr. Lerner.

   The new $2.2 billion goal stretched over the 10 years of the 1990's is the
largest fund-raising target any American college has ever projected, though
Harvard's $2.1 billion goal would be achieved in half the time.

   Columbia University, which was founded in 1754 as Kings College, has a $2.2
billion endowment, the nation's seventh largest, though still one-third the size
of the leader, Harvard. It has 20,200 graduate and undergraduate students and
2,350 full-time faculty members and remains one of the nation's most competitive
institutions. Its college admitted 23.4 percent of the 8,714 students who
applied last year, and 43 percent of those chose to attend.

   The $1.15 billion raised since the campaign was begun in the fall of 1990 by
Michael I. Sovern, then the Columbia president, was made up of 300,000
donations. They ranged from a dollar to such gifts as $85 million contributed by
John W. Kluge, chairman of the Metromedia Company, for minority scholarships and
faculty development, and $10 million donations each by two leading trustees,
Jerry Speyer, president and chief executive officer of Tishman Speyer
Properties, and Lionel I. Pincus, chairman and chief executive of E. M. Warburg,
Pincus & Company.

   Amassing this money required a mixture of tact, stamina and plain audacity.
Dr. Rupp traveled to Asia and Europe to meet with prosperous alumni identified
by the college's development office. He schmoozed with alumni, trying to
determine some university function that they favored, like gene-therapy research
or the library.

   "Giving is highly personal," Dr. Rupp said. "People go back to first
principles. We ask what are our deepest values. What do we hold most dear, what
are we grateful for."

   The trustees themselves made rounds of telephone calls and burnished chairs
at many a dinner party.

   "I have no compunction to ask on behalf of the university," said Mr. Speyer,
who is chairman of its board of trustees.

   Mr. Speyer, in fact, was on the receiving end of a full-court press by the
college president, looking for a sizable gift.

   "I had something else in mind, and George made the case that it was important
for the trustees and the other people involved in the university to show their
support in a major way," Mr. Speyer said.

   Columbia, after all, was the place where Mr. Speyer met three of his lifelong
friends as well as an art professor who helped him acquire the sensibility to
gather his impressive art collection.

   "My family's first, my business is second, but the third interest I have is
art, and I was first exposed to art at Columbia and I've been collecting for 30
years," Mr. Speyer said.

   Although gifts would have come in annually in any case, colleges like to
create campaigns with specific deadlines, said Henry King, former chairman of
the board of trustees, because they "generate a certain amount of excitement."

   "Alumni are mobilized to reach a target and strive for it," he said.

   Spending the money also involved some hard choices. The college decided not
to renovate Ferris Booth because it would still end up with an inadequate center
for a growing student body and because it did not reflect the rest of the
campus's architectural style. But tearing Ferris Booth down will now mean that
for three years students will have to use temporary prefabricated buildings for
many activities.

   In debating what to do about Butler Library, Dr. Rupp recalled, some trustees
argued that in the computer age, it was a white elephant and a "monument to past
scholarly habits."

   Still, he said he found the whole fund-raising process exhilarating.

   "People express what they care about even more than money because, after all,
they're giving money away," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1995


                              38 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   November 30, 1995, Thursday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Help for bone health without hormones;
Medical Notebook

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

    Postmenopausal women who want to avoid osteoporosis, but prefer not to take
estrogen, now have an effective alternative, a study published today suggests.

   It's a drug called alendronate, which researchers say is the first
nonhormonal medication that not only reduces bone loss but adds new healthy bone
mass. And, unlike estrogen, it has no apparent harmful side effects.

   In an international study reported in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine, researchers found that alendronate increased bone mineral
density in the spine, hip and overall skeleton, and reduced the incidence of
fractures.

   The study involved nearly 1,000 women between 45 and 80 who took either
alendronate or an inactive placebo daily.

   "This is really a breakthrough medication," said Dr. Stuart R. Weiss, a San
Diego endocrine specialist and one of the authors of the study report.

   "Estrogen reduces bone loss and builds healthy bone, but many women can't or
will not take estrogen" because it increases cancer risk, Weiss said in an
interview. "And alendronate is more effective," he added.

   The drug, marketed by Merck & Co. as Fosamax, won federal approval in
September for treating established osteoporosis.

A new weapon OK'd for leukemia battle

    Adrug derived from vitamin A has been approved by the federal government for
treating a rare and deadly form of leukemia.

   The drug, to be sold by Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc. under the brand name Vesanoid,
fights cancer in an entirely different way from other drugs. Called a
"differentiation agent," the drug forces cancer cells, which are cells that have
become primitive and unruly, to mature. When they are mature, the cells are
differentiated - that is, they've become specialized for particular roles in the
body. And also when they're mature, they can be wiped out by the body's
defenses.

   Patients who have acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) are very likely to
relapse after initial treatment. In a series of clinical studies, patients who
received Vesanoid had a high rate (60 to 76 percent) of complete response, and
they appear to live significantly longer than with previous treatments.

   Vesanoid's clearance by the Food and Drug Administration "signals an
important advance in oncology," said Dr. David Parkinson, chief of the National
Cancer Institute's investigational drug branch.

Gene therapy offers cystic fibrosis hope

    While scientists have high hopes that gene therapy might extend the lives of
people with the lethal inherited disease cystic fibrosis, early experiments have
had disappointing results.

   Now, scientists at Johns Hopkins Children's Center have begun testing a new
strategy for getting the normal, healthy CF gene into the noses and lungs of
patients with the disease. In place of a virus vehicle that others had used to
carry the gene into the cells of the mucous membranes, they are using a
different virus that they believe won't cause inflammation.

   Scientists use viruses to transport genes because the viruses can easily
infect cells and insert their cargo into the cells' DNA, where they correct the
genetic flaw that causes a disease. But in experiments over the past few years,
the viral carriers have triggered inflammation of patients' mucous membranes,
forcing a halt to gene therapy attempts.

   The effort at Johns Hopkins makes use of a virus called adeno-associated
virus, or AAV, that's harmless. In tests on rabbits and monkeys, the virus
successfully carried a healthy gene into the target cells and caused no harmful
effects.

   The defect in CF patients' lungs and airways causes a salt imbalance that
leads to an accumulation of thick, sticky mucus that traps bacteria and creates
a progressive risk of lethal infections.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1995


                              39 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times



            November 29, 1995, WEDNESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Baxter to Split Into 2 Companies

BYLINE: BY MARY ELLEN PODMOLIK

BODY:


   Baxter International Inc. announced plans Tuesday to split into two $ 5
billion companies, adding its name to a list of conglomerates that have decided
smaller is better.

   With the decision to create separate entities for medical technology products
and health-care cost management, Baxter completes a restructuring that began two
years ago. In November, 1993, the Deerfield-based company took a $ 925 million
charge against earnings, shuffled its executive ranks and cut 4,500 jobs -- but
didn't heed calls for a breakup.

   The restructuring has paid off for Baxter investors: Over the last two years,
the company's stock has moved from the mid-$ 20s to close Tuesday at $ 41.50, up
$ 3, in active trading on the New York Stock Exchange.

   "We've thought of this for some period of time," Baxter Chairman and Chief
Executive Vernon R. Loucks Jr. said. "We wanted a run to show greater profits,
reduce our debt. If we had split at that point, our shareholders would have
gotten screwed."

   The split marks a 180-degree turn away from a strategy to offer hospitals
one-stop shopping for all their product needs -- a notion that has been
championed by Loucks since 1985, when Baxter acquired American Hospital Supply
Corp., making it the largest hospital supplier in the world.

   The new Baxter International that Loucks will lead will remain based in
Deerfield and focus on high-growth medical technologies that include gene
therapy, blood products, heart valves, intravenous systems and Baxter's
international business.

   The other company, still to be named, will handle distribution of all Baxter
products, production of surgical instruments and gowns and cost-management
initiatives with hospitals. It will be based in northern Illinois and be led by
Lester B. Knight, who joined Baxter in 1981 and was largely responsible for
developing its cost-management business.

   Baxter employs 7,000 people in northern Illinois, and about 4,400 of them
will work at the new Baxter and the remainder will work for the cost management
company. Baxter said the break-up may result in the loss of an undetermined
number of jobs but it could also present new opportunities.

   The board's decision to break up the company spotlights the importance of its
medical technologies division, and the pressure that industry consolidation has
placed on its service and supply businesses. Annual revenues for the two
business lines are roughly the same, but operating margins at its medical
technologies unit are 15 percent, compared with 6 percent for the medical
products and services business, analysts said.

   "This is something I hoped would happen for quite some time," said Jonathan
Osgood, an analyst who follows Baxter for Alex. Brown & Sons. "There was no
reason for this company to be combined in the manner it was combined."

   Other analysts, however, questioned why Baxter decided to split, particularly
when it was so opposed to the idea two years ago and there is such widespread
consolidation among its customers.

   "I'm reserving judgment on whether it's good," said Charlene Lu, an analyst
at Prudential Securities. "If you're going to have bigger buyers, it makes sense
to have one-stop shopping."

   Talk of splitting along core business lines and maximizing shareholder value
is becoming commonplace in some U.S. corporate boardrooms. While merger mania
grips media and drug companies, shareholders of longtime conglomerates want to
see the value of the individual pieces of a company.

   In September, AT&T said it would split into three entities and in June, ITT
Corp. announced plans to break into three separate businesses. Sears, Roebuck
and Co. is finally standing on its own as a retailer, after its decision to
break off its financial services, insurance and real estate businesses.

   "Conglomerates are dinosaurs of the past," said Thomas Lys, an associate
professor at Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management and
a specialist in mergers and acquisitions. "(They) have created very large
corporations that are difficult to manage, slow to respond and not very focused.
A CEO only has so much of an attention span."

   Baxter's split will provide each company with more flexibility and investment
opportunities, Loucks said, but the two entities will continue to work closely
and customers shouldn't notice much difference.

   Since its 1993 restructuring, Baxter has reduced its debt from $ 3.5 billion
to just over $ 2 billion, and that sum will be split between the two companies.

   In the transaction, to be completed next year, Baxter shareholders will
receive a tax-free distribution of shares in a new publicly traded company. The
stock distribution ratio has not been determined.

GRAPHIC: SEE Related Chart

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995


                              40 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

            November 29, 1995, WEDNESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: THE SPLIT

BODY:


   Medical Technology

   Name: Baxter International Inc.

   Headquarters: Deerfield.

   Chairman and chief executive: Vernon R. Loucks Jr.

   Business lines: Biotechnology, blood products and gene therapy, renal
therapy, cardiovascular, international hospital and intravenous systems.

   Employees: 33,000.

   Sales: $ 5 billion.

   Health-care Cost Management

   Name: Undetermined.

   Headquarters: Undetermined, but in northern Illinois.

   Chief executive officer: Lester B. Knight.

   Business lines: Cost management, U.S. distribution of Baxter products,
surgical instruments and gowns.

   Employees: 20,000.

   Sales: $ 5 billion.

GRAPHIC: SEE Related Story

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995


                              41 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   November 28, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Hopkins trying gene therapy in bid to conquer cystic fibrosis; First
patient given altered virus; other trials have disappointed

BYLINE: Jonathan Bor, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   In the latest attempt to conquer the leading genetic killer of children,
researchers at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions have inoculated their
first patient in a trial of a gene therapy for cystic fibrosis.

   The scientists hope to overcome problems that have plagued researchers at
other universities who have also used gene therapy to fight the disease, which
afflicts about 30,000 children and young adults. Patients suffer from abnormally
thick, sticky mucous that clogs their lungs and produces fatal infections.

   The gene therapies have employed a common strategy. Scientists equip viruses
with copies of genes that instruct cells to perform activities vital to healthy
lungs. The viruses act as Trojan horses, carrying the genes inside cells while
infecting them.

   Scientists involved in six previous efforts have used a weakened form of the
common adenovirus to carry mucous-fighting genes inside respiratory cells. In
its unaltered state, the virus causes colds and flulike symptoms.

   Although the trials have not been declared outright failures, many did not
deliver the gene to adequate numbers of target cells. Several provoked
inflammation and triggered immune system attacks that killed cells carrying the
healthy genes.

   Dr. Terence Flotte, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Hopkins, said the
latest trial could be a turning point in the hunt for a successful gene therapy
because it employs a different virus -- one that resides naturally inside most
people without ill effects.

   The Hopkins researchers have chosen the adeno-associated virus (AAV) as their
delivery system, hoping it will prove "a nontoxic way to transfer genes into
these cells without triggering inflammation," Dr. Flotte said. The first patient
in the study, a young woman who asked not to be identified, was inoculated last
week. Researchers plan to inoculate a total of 12 people over the next year in a
trial that will measure safety and success in introducing the genes.

   Another volunteer, 21-year-old Augusta Brotzman of Plattsburgh, N.Y., said
she enrolled in the trial knowing that the therapy -- new and untested -- is
unlikely to ease her symptoms. But she wanted to help fight a disease that
killed her brother and many friends she made while hospitalized.

   Fighting for her friends

   "I'm so sick of CF," said Ms. Brotzman, whose cousin is also afflicted. "You
grow up with your friends dying all the time. You want to do it more for them
than for yourself."

   She is to receive the therapy in January.

   The disease once killed the vast majority of sufferers by the time they
reached their teens. Many now survive into their 20s and 30s, with small numbers
living beyond that. Longer survival is attributed to better antibiotics and
physical therapy.

   The Hopkins trial is limited to adults with mild to moderate forms of the
disease. Choosing relatively healthy people should give scientists an easier
time distinguishing side effects from disease symptoms.

   Physicians use an ultrathin tube to inoculate both nostrils and a small
section of lung. They begin with extremely small doses that will become
progressively larger with each new patient, the last of whom will get a dosage
about 300 times larger than the first.

   Even at that point, the therapy would probably be too modest to produce a
therapeutic effect.

   "Our best-case scenario is that we'll be able to move up to a dosage level
where we will efficiently transfer the normal gene without any side effect,"
said Dr. Flotte. "If we can do that, then it can set the stage for a study that
will test the therapeutic effect of the gene."

   The trial is being led by Dr. Flotte; Dr. William Guggino, director of
Hopkins' Gene Therapy Center; Dr. Beryl Rosenstein, the hospital's CF clinical
director; and researchers at Targeted Genetics, a Seattle biotechnology firm.

   Johns Hopkins licensed rights to produce the vector -- the gene-delivery
system -- to Targeted Genetics in return for royalties.

   How project started

   The collaborators began work soon after the discovery in 1989 of the gene
that causes cystic fibrosis. Afflicted people carry two flawed copies of the
gene that, in its healthy state, produces a protein that helps transport salt
out of cells lining the lungs.

   Once outside the cells, the salt attracts water that, in turn, thins mucous.

   "We don't know yet if the AAV vector will allow therapeutic amounts of the
protein to be produced," Dr. Guggino said. "But laboratory and animal studies
indicate it is capable of doing so."

   "The AAV have their theoretical advantages but you really don't know until
you get them into the patients," said Dr. Robert J. Beall, executive director of
the Bethesda-based Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, which is cosponsoring the
experiment.

   Volunteers spend two weeks in isolation after their inoculation. Later,
doctors study cell samples to see how frequently the genes reached their target
cells. Other tests will help determine if salt and water are moving across nasal
membranes.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995


                              42 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    November 28, 1995, Tuesday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY USED TO REDUCE TUMORS

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: CHICAGO

BODY:


   A scientist reported signs of success Monday with an experimental gene
therapy technique that may cause the body to reject a malignant tumor the same
way it often tries to reject a transplanted organ.

   "The technique caused tumors to disappear or shrink appreciably in six of 10
patients -- one of the first times that gene therapy has demonstrated success in
reducing tumors," said Evan Unger of the University of Arizona in Tucson.

   He said computer tomography -- a technique that sends X-rays into the body at
different angles -- was used to inject an antigen-bearing gene into tumors of
patients with a deadly form of skin cancer.

   Antigens activate the body's immune system.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995


                              43 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    NOVEMBER 28, 1995 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: COLLABORATION, COMPETITION MIX IN SEARCH FOR CYSTIC FIBROSIS DRUG

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   Only months away from testing a new cystic fibrosis drug on patients, gene
therapist James M. Wilson was flying in from Philadelphia for the biggest CF
conference in the world.

   But more important to him than the scientific papers being presented was the
meeting he planned to have with a scientist who didn't think Wilson's tests
would succeed.

   The scientist, Richard C. Boucher of the University of North Carolina, had
just published a study in the New England Journal of Medicine showing that a
drug similar to Wilson's did not work.

   If Boucher was right, Wilson would have to ditch the drug he had spent a year
developing, and redirect much of the research at the University of
Pennsylvania's Institute for Human Gene Therapy, where he is the director.

   It would mean that science was much further away from controlling cystic
fibrosis than many had thought, and that proposed therapies for other genetic
diseases might also be in trouble.

   But Wilson didn't think that Boucher's article had proved the point. He
wanted to know if Boucher had more damning data that he hadn't made public.

   Even though they were competitors in the race to develop the first effective
gene drug, Wilson was sure that his friend and colleague of 10 years would be
open with him.

   *

   More than 2,300 scientists, nurses, physicians, respiratory therapists and
other health-care providers had flown in from all over the world to attend the
ninth annual North American Cystic Fibrosis Conference.

   With more gene-therapy research being done on CF than any other disease, the
four-day conference, sponsored by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, had become an
important one for gene therapists. Boucher was to be one of the speakers.

   CF is considered an ideal disease for developing gene therapy because it is
caused by a single defective gene, which has been identified.

   Scientists believe they can control CF by replacing the defective genes with
healthy ones, using adenoviruses as "vectors" to deliver them to the patient's
lung cells.

   The new genes then make the protein CF patients lack and need to keep their
airways free of mucus.

   At least that's what researchers like Wilson are hoping.

   *

   Wilson spent the first two days of the meeting chairing one symposium and
attending several others. Finally, it was time for Boucher's talk.

   In front of Boucher more than 2,000 people filled practically every seat in
the giant ballroom. Wilson, as is his custom at science meetings, sat in the
front row. Wilson and Boucher would have their private lunch after the
presentation.

   Much of Boucher's talk dealt with the research he had just published. He
explained how his team had treated the noses of 12 CF patients with ever larger
amounts of a gene drug, and discovered that it was not effective at even the
highest doses.

   The vector was able to transfer the therapeutic gene to only a small
percentage of the nasal cells - less than 1 percent - and even those cells did
not end up functioning normally.

   Because toxic effects were seen at lower doses, Boucher said, it would be
dangerous to give higher doses in the hope of getting the gene therapy to work.

   Other researchers had reported more success in transferring genes to nasal
and lung cells, but Boucher thought this was because of inadvertent damage to
cells, making them more susceptible to infection by the gene-carrying vectors.

   Boucher's lecture added little to what Wilson knew. He still had faith in the
drug he was to test in human trials.

   *

   Boucher and Wilson went off by themselves to compare notes over lunch at a
restaurant in the Wyndham Anatole Hotel lobby.

   Often the most important information scientists get from conferences comes
from impromptu conversations at the back of meeting rooms, in hallways, and
during meals like the one Boucher and Wilson were having.

   The two scientists quickly got down to business. The main question was
whether nasal cells responded to gene therapy the same way lung cells did.

   Scientists had thought they did. That's why they tested gene vectors on nasal
cells rather than lung cells, which are less accessible.

   As people in the lobby streamed by their table, Boucher told Wilson that he
had anticipated the possibility that the two types of cells were not so similar.
So he tested the gene vector in the laboratory on human lungs taken
from organ-transplant patients. It worked no better than it did in the nasal
cells.

   Wilson questioned Boucher's study, saying that lungs separated from the body
and stored in a laboratory freezer for 24 hours could not be expected to act
normally.

   In fact, he said, at his Penn lab animal studies had shown that the drug
worked fine in lungs though it failed in noses. And he had found a significant
difference between lung and nasal cells on a molecular level.

   He told Boucher that Penn researchers had found molecules on the lung cells
that the viruses used to penetrate the cells and deposit their gene cargo. Nasal
cells lacked the molecules.

   Despite Wilson's data, Boucher remained skeptical. He was convinced that the
vectors being used in CF trials would not control the disease unless they were
radically changed or used in a different way so that they could transfer genes
to a higher percentage of lung cells.

   Both Wilson and Boucher were world leaders in gene therapy. They were looking
at the same data. But they were coming to different conclusions.

   The two ended their lunch agreeing that not enough was known to sort out the
conflicting data.

   Overall, Wilson was encouraged, but he still was concerned that Boucher's
vector had not worked in the lungs taken from transplant patients.

   One of the first things he did when he got back to Philadelphia was tell
pulmonary fellow Mitch Goldman to take lung cells from mice, store them in a
freezer for 24 hours, and then try to infect them with the vector.

   If he was right about the damaging effects of storage, then Goldman should
have trouble infecting the lung cells, even though they were easily infected in
intact animals.

   *

   Wilson was far more optimistic than recent news reports and editorials in
technical journals commenting on the slow advance of gene-therapy research. Much
of the criticism stemmed from work done more than a year ago, and just now being
published.

   "The field is moving so fast," said Henry L. Dorkin, chief of the CF center
at the New England Medical Center in Boston, "that whenever I give a talk I have
to put in new slides to bring everything up to date."

   A recent editorial in the journal Nature Medicine criticized gene therapists
for rushing too quickly into human trials with "premature technologies."

   The editorial was prompted by Boucher's paper and a study by Wilson in the
same issue. Wilson's paper involved testing a gene-therapy drug on five patients
with a very rare and deadly disease that elevated cholesterol.

   Wilson says the cholesterol paper is "totally irrelevant" in judging the
current state of gene-therapy research. The work was completed two years ago, he
said, using methods and vectors long since abandoned.

   Researchers have made advances in the last two years, though it hasn't always
appeared that way. Like a tank crossing a minefield, most of the advances have
involved the discovery of obstacles that had to be overcome before gene therapy
could be successful.

   Scientists found that the immune system is a formidable enemy, destroying the
vectors that had been so carefully engineered to carry healthy genes into the
body's cells.

   They discovered that vectors do not transfer genes to human cells as
efficiently as they do to animal cells.

   And they've learned that inflammation makes the transferred genes unstable,
so that they work for only a few days or weeks.

   The scientists think they have found ways around these problems, but they
won't know for sure until the next series of human trials get under way, they
hope next year.

   "People don't understand the time frame of science," said Terence R. Flotte
of Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. "People think there's something sitting
there that someone has invented. It's done, and either it works or it doesn't.
Science is more of an evolutionary process."

   Flotte hopes to get around immunity by using a different virus, which
provokes the immune system less than the adenovirus does.

   Flotte is testing on animals the adeno-associated virus (AAV), which is often
found with adenoviruses but doesn't cause any known disease, and hopes to try it
soon in humans.

   A drawback of AAV is that it doesn't transfer genes as efficiently as the
adenovirus in animals.

   Ronald G. Crystal of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center thinks he
has found a way to improve the efficiency of gene delivery.

   His lab has reengineered the outer coats of viruses so that they can more
effectively penetrate cells and deposit genes.

   Eric J. Sorscher of the University of Alabama thinks that the most effective
way around the immunity problem is to use something other than viruses to
deliver the genes.

   Sorscher packs genes into a fatty bubble called a liposome, which delivers
them to cells. So far he's given liposomes to one patient without side effects
and plans to do the same with eight more by next summer.

   *

   Since returning from the cystic fibrosis conference last month, reassured by
his meeting with Boucher, Wilson has been preparing for human trials at Penn.

   His theory that Boucher's transplant lung experiment wouldn't apply to living
patients was supported by Goldman's tests on the frozen mice lung cells. Goldman
reported that he was having trouble infecting the lung cells.

   The lab is preparing four different vectors for delivering genes in the
cystic fibrosis trials, and each one, Wilson believes, is better than any of the
drugs currently in trials elsewhere.

   Wilson has given highest priority to finishing development of Vector IV,
which he calls "the Cadillac of vectors," because he thinks it has the best
chance of eluding the immune system and working for long periods.

   But he's run into problems growing it. So he's assigned four teams in his lab
to solve the problems and get it ready by the end of the month. If Vector IV
isn't ready by then, he will pick one of the others.

   Regardless of what happens, he is determined to go to human trials early next
year and be the first to start testing the next generation of gene drugs.

NOTES: THE QUEST: SEEKING AN ULTIMATE CURE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (3)
1. James M. Wilson had a big audience when he spoke at a cystic fibrosis
conference in Dallas. But a key moment for the Penn researcher was his quiet
lunch with a scientist who doubted his theories. (For The Inquirer, CAROLYN
BAUMAN)
2. Richard C. Boucher had published a study saying a drug similar to Wilson's
did not work.
3. Yi Ping at work in James M. Wilson's laboratory. He was screening genes in
the viral "vector" used to deliver the drug. (The Philadelphia Inquirer
, VICKI VALERIO)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              44 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 28, 1995, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy

BYLINE: From wire dispatches

DATELINE: CHICAGO

BODY:


   A scientist reported signs of success yesterday with an experimental gene
therapy technique that may cause the body to reject a malignant tumor the same
way it often tries to reject a transplanted organ. Evan Unger of the University
of Arizona in Tucson said computer tomography -- a technique that sends X-rays
into the body at different angles -- was used to inject an antigen-bearing gene
into tumors of patients with a deadly form of skin cancer. Antigens activate the
body's immune system. ''The theory is when the gene is expressed on the surface
of the cancer cells, the body's natural immune system -- recognizing the foreign
antigen -- mounts a defense to destroy it,'' Unger said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995


                              45 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     November 28, 1995 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. 7E

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: CYSTIC FIBROSIS FAILS TO PREVENT A HEALTHY BIRTH

BYLINE: By MARY ESCH; ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: GLENS FALLS, N.Y.

BODY:

   Having struggled with cystic fibrosis all her life, Sharon Dingman knew
pregnancy would be risky. Even if she succeeded in having a baby, she might not
live to see her child through grade school.

   After all, when she was diagnosed at birth with the incurable, smothering
lung disease, she wasn't expected to live through childhood. When she met her
husband, John, medical advances had stretched the life expectancy for people
with cystic fibrosis to 21 years. She was 21 already.

   "All the accounts I had read about pregnancy and CF were very negative," said
Dingman, 26. "The women often died within the first year of giving birth, or got
very sick during pregnancy."

   As she spoke, her fingers trailed over the silky hair and chubby toes of her
infant son, Ian. He was born June 11 at Albany Medical Center Hospital, 45 miles
south of Glens Falls, where they live.

   The birth was celebrated as one of the first for a woman with CF in the
hospital's 146-year history. Within several weeks, two more mothers with CF gave
birth to healthy babies.

   Dr. Anthony Malanga, head of pulmonary medicine at the hospital, said the
successful pregnancies signify optimism that CF patients can live full lives if
their symptoms are carefully controlled through new treatments.

   Cystic fibrosis is the most common inherited disease among Caucasians. One in
20 people carry the gene responsible for the disorder, and 1 in 2,000 babies
have CF, according to Dr. David M. Orenstein, director of the Cystic Fibrosis
Center at the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh.

   A few decades ago, most children with CF died before their second birthday,
Orenstein said. Now the life expectancy is near 30, with many people surviving
into their 40s.

   The disease causes the lungs to become clogged with thick, sticky mucus that
provides a breeding ground for bacteria, leading to frequent infections such as
bronchitis and pneumonia.

   Patients require continuous antibiotics to stave off infection and daily
physical therapy to expel mucus. They are frequently hospitalized when an
infection sets in.

   The pancreas also is affected, causing problems in absorbing nutrients from
food. Thus, people with CF are usually thin and often malnourished.

   Therapeutic advancements include new antibiotics, mucus thinners and
anti-inflammatory drugs, improved methods of loosening and expelling mucus, and
enzyme tablets to improve nutrition.

   Joanne Washburn, 24, who lives 30 miles east of the Dingmans in Hoosick
Falls, had to contend with the threat of miscarriage caused by a weak cervix as
well as the debilitating symptoms of CF.

   "I grew up wanting a family," she said. "The doctor said it would be hard to
get pregnant" because the thick mucus of CF hinders conception. A year after she
married her husband, Tim, she discovered she was pregnant.

   "My mom cried," Washburn said. "She didn't want that. Everyone had tried to
discourage me, even my husband. They didn't want to lose me."

   Terribly sick with CF symptoms and unable to gain weight, Washburn lost her
first baby. She had another miscarriage a year later. During her third
pregnancy, she developed asthma and was hospitalized three times for lung
infections.

   "Toward the end of the pregnancy I got so big, it restricted my breathing,"
she said. "They put me in an oxygen tent at 29 weeks."

   Her son, Andrew, was born by Caesarean section six weeks prematurely on June
20. While Washburn was under anesthesia, a pulmonary team poured a liquid mucus
thinner into her lungs.

   "He's given me new life, new hope," said Washburn, cradling her son at the
kitchen table of her parents' farmhouse. "Andrew's my miracle baby."

   Caring for a newborn as well as herself is difficult, said Washburn. She
spends four to six hours a day giving herself treatments with bronchodilators,
antibiotics, steroids, mucus thinners and chest-pounding exercises that help her
cough up secretions.

   Dingman, a respiratory therapist, and her husband, who manages a shoe store,
said they rely on help from their extended families within the community.

   Both infants tested negative for CF. The parents were offered genetic testing
to determine the odds of passing the disorder on.

   If both parents had CF, the child also would have it. If the father was a
carrier of one of 32 most common defects in the CF gene, there would be a 50
percent chance the child would inherit the disease. If the father tested
negativze, there would be a 1-in-500 chance the child would have CF.

   If the mother's lung function is good, pregnancy doesn't make cystic fibrosis
progress more rapidly, said Dr. Renee Samuelson, a high-risk obstetrician at the
Albany medical center.

   "But if pulmonary function is low, the stress of pregnancy can cause
respiratory problems for both the mother and baby."

   Mothers with CF may have trouble meeting the fetus' nutritional needs as well
as her own, Samuelson said, and there is an increased risk of diabetes.

   Dingman, who eats three times the calories a normal person would just to
maintain her weight, said it was hard to do that after she developed diabetes
during pregnancy.

   The joy of new life mingled with sadness at the death of a friend a month
after Ian was born, Dingman said.

   "We went to the funeral of a girl [with CF] who was just 29. I've lost nine
friends in the past few years.

   "I hate the thought of not being around for him," Dingman said, rocking her
sleeping son. "I hope gene therapy comes through. I try to keep a positive
attitude, even as I'm watching my friends die one by one."

   Medical researchers hope gene therapy will cure CF by replacing the defective
gene with a normal one, Malanga said. Scientists already have constructed the
corrected gene, he said, but have not found the right "biological syringe," such
as a virus, to carry the gene into the patient.

   John Dingman said he and his wife did a lot of soul searching before they
decided to have a child. "I was concerned that pregnancy would shorten Sharon's
life," he said. "I told her I'd rather have 10 years with her than one year with
her and a child."

   "I'd give up the 10 years," Dingman said, smiling at her baby. "I'd do
anything for him."

GRAPHIC: ;PHOTOS BY: ASSOCIATED PRESS; PHOTO 1: Sharon Dingman, with her son Ian
and husband, John. Sharon has cystic fibrosis, but Ian was born healthy in
June.; PHOTO 2: It's playtime in the Dingman household for Ian and his parents,
John and Sharon.; PHOTO 3: Sharon Dingman tends to her son, Ian, while the
family strolls their neighborhood in Glens Falls, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995


                              46 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     NOVEMBER 27, 1995 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: IN WAR OF IVIES, PENN'S RECRUITERS BLITZ THE WORLD A CORPS OF 16 SPENT
SEVEN WEEKS MEETING 13,000 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS AND PARENTS FROM OMAHA TO
ISTANBUL.

BYLINE: Howard Goodman, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS

BODY:

   Beyond the glass wall of the Galba Titus Room at Caesars Palace, the Strip
was a silent showoff, spraying neon across the carnival sky. Past ersatz
volcanoes and pirate ships, past no-wait marriage parlors and big names on big
marquees (Paul Anka! Johnny Mathis!), the polyestered hordes chased the American
dream to the next dollar slot.

   Inside, a couple of dozen earnest teenagers sat with their backs to the
glitz. A slide projector hummed over tipsy music leaking in from a party nearby.

   On the screen were images 2,500 miles removed from the sin and sands of
Nevada:

   Locust Walk. The Furness Library. The Quakers' marching band.

   Yes, here in the playground that Bugsy Siegel built, the University of
Pennsylvania was making its pitch.

   In its quest for the best students from all points of the compass, the
institution partly founded by Ben "A Penny Saved" Franklin reached into Vegas -
and way, way beyond.

   In seven weeks of hard hoofing this fall, 16 Penn admissions officers trekked
to the 50 states, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Manila, Jakarta, Dubai, Istanbul, Athens, Rome, Vienna, Geneva,
Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, Mexico City, Bogota and Quito.

   They visited 1,200 high schools and held 142 evening sessions in hotel
meeting rooms. In all, they saw nearly 13,000 students and parents.

   Penn spent about $300,000 on this season's travel and out-of-town programs,
according to Lee Stetson, dean of admissions. He declined to reveal the
university's overall admissions budget; a private institution, it is not
obligated to open its books. But with a $1.5 billion endowment - 12th-largest in
the nation - Penn can probably afford the plane tickets.

   You wouldn't think they would have to work so hard.

   Penn is rolling in applicants: a record 16,000 expected this year for 2,300
places in next fall's freshman class, the class of 2000. Each year the candidate
pool is a little sharper, with higher grades and scores.

   But recruitment is war. Top schools, forever vying for prestige, battle it
out for the top students. And Penn approaches the fray as an underdog.

   Penn might be a famous name, but it isn't a name that sells itself, like
Harvard, Yale or Princeton. It's not a byword of the sports pages like
basketball powers Georgetown or Duke.

   To make up the gap, "we tend to work a little harder," Stetson said. "When
the stakes are as high as they are in Ivy League competition, then the amount of
dollars we place in this effort is money well spent."

   Penn isn't the only school to hit the circuit like an old vaudevillian.

   "Every college that I know of has their road warriors," said Kenneth Hartman,
director of admissions and guidance services for the College Board's Middle
States regional office, headquartered in Philadelphia.

   "It's becoming very expensive to do this, but they're all fearful that if
they don't do it and they don't meet their class, heads are going to roll."

   Like many other universities, Penn spends thousands of dollars on glossy
booklets to advertise the campus' most appealing features. Penn officials won't
disclose their publications budget, but it is not uncommon for colleges to spend
$500,000 or more, said Edward Custard, a one-time admissions officer who now
writes college guidebooks.

   Penn also buys nationally targeted lists of high school students - mostly
those scoring higher than 1,200 on the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) and
posting high grade-point averages. The College Board sells the names for 22
cents each, available on magnetic tape or mail-ready labels. Penn bought about
58,000 names this year from the SAT list and 8,000 more names of high scorers on
the American College Testing Program Assessment (ACT), a standardized exam
popular in the Midwest.

   Penn sends those students the glossy booklets, as well as mail-in cards to
gauge their interest. It follows up with invitations to meet Penn admissions
officers in their home towns.

   And don't think Penn won't be coming.

   On the same night that admissions officer Allison Rouse spoke to high school
students and parents at Caesars Palace, other Penn reps talked to crowds in
Portland, Ore.; Southfield, Mich.; Gainesville, Fla.; Menlo Park, Calif.; Omaha;
Wichita; and Nashville.

   For Rouse, Vegas was just a quick stop on a hurried itinerary. He had rushed
in that afternoon from Albuquerque. The day before, he'd been in El Paso. The
next day, he'd be in Tucson. The day after that, Phoenix.

   Penn's effort is more aggressive than that of some rivals; its admissions
officers often revisit cities several times to cement relationships with
students, parents, alumni and guidance counselors.

   To stretch the recruiting dollar, Penn admissions officers increasingly
travel with counterparts from other schools. In Rouse's whirlwind week through
Las Vegas and other Southwest cities, he was joined by Yale and Georgetown. On
other trips, Harvard and Duke are frequent companions.

   By appearing jointly, the schools also pull larger audiences than they would
individually. And by holding meetings at night, in central locations, the reps
see more parents than they would with the old staple, day visits to high
schools.

   Calling on high schools is a hit-or-miss proposition anyway, admissions
officers say. "In a lot of places, it's like spelunking - searching a black
hole, looking for a kid who might be interested," said Custard.

   The trips are grueling and expensive, but they've changed the face of Penn.
In 15 years of increasing outreach, the student body has become less exclusively
Northeastern. Twenty years ago, 75 percent of Penn's student body came from just
three states: Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey. This year, about half the
freshmen come from those three. The rest are from every state but North and
South Dakota, Montana and Idaho. Eight come from Puerto Rico, about 200 from
foreign lands.

   Coming from a distant locale will help some students get in, Penn admissions
officers say - but only if they have the grades and test scores, as well as the
leadership or athletic ability that make an application stand out.

   Geographic diversity is not sought "because we think it's artistically
pleasing to have every state represented in the class," Stetson said. The aim,
he said, is to dot the class with different types of people, with different life
stories and points of view.

   "We want the most yeasty and dynamic environment possible."

   *

   Allison Rouse, young-executive stylish in a dark-blue suit, stuck out his
hand to strangers as if they were longtime friends. They melted like cheese.

   "He just picked us out of nowhere and said, 'Hi, my name is Allison,' " Paul
Foley, a senior at Cheyenne High School in Las Vegas, said later. "He is so
cool."

   Foley came to Caesars thinking Georgetown - only Georgetown. His grandfather
had been a Hoya. He would be a Hoya.

   But Foley, a prospective business major, hadn't realized Penn was home to the
Wharton School. And he didn't know that Penn had people like Allison Rouse.

   Charmed, Foley abruptly tossed aside years of planning. He suddenly had a new
college of choice. He would apply to Penn.

   "I love my job," Rouse said in an off-stage moment. "If I'm having a bad day,
I start talking to 200 people about Penn and I cheer right up."

   A lean, fast-talking 24-year-old who Rollerblades for miles for morning
exercise, Rouse didn't look much older than the high school students wandering
uncertainly into the Caesars Palace convention wing. Only a couple of years ago,
Rouse was a Penn undergrad. He ran track, held office in his fraternity, majored
in international relations, and spent a semester in Holland.

   He comes from a South Bronx housing project, the youngest of seven children.
After Catholic elementary school, he went to the Riverdale Country School -
Mayor Rendell's alma mater - one of five blacks in a class of 150. "You know
what that means," he jokes to audiences. "I'm going to be the next mayor of
Philadelphia."

   In his third year as an admissions officer, Rouse's usual turf is a crazy
quilt of Arizona, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Monmouth County, N.J.,
and Rockland and Westchester Counties, N.Y. When applications come in from these
areas, he reads them first, his knowledge of local high schools counting for a
lot.

   He traveled to Vegas with Patricia Mulvaney of Georgetown and Christopher
Murphy of Yale. They wound up at Caesars because a Georgetown alum is a Caesars
bigwig and cut them a good rate. And because Caesars, in Stetson's opinion, is
one of the best-run meeting places around. And because Las Vegas is the
fastest-growing city in the U.S.A.

   For all that, only about 60 turned out for the presentation. Twice as many
seats were empty. The draw at the Tucson Doubletree the next night would be
larger, about 85 people, and larger still in sprawling Phoenix the night after
that: about 120.

   Each of the reps gave a 10-minute slide show - lots of pictures of fall
leaves, snowy walkways, sturdy old statuary and smiling students in
multicultural groupings.

   The three schools are in some ways kin: 200-year-old institutions on the
Eastern Seaboard that charge about $30,000 a year to attend. All three will
deeply discount that price, however, based on families' financial circumstances,
offering hefty grant, loan and work-study packages. All are "need-blind,"
meaning they admit or reject without regard to applicants' wealth, or lack of
it.

   "It makes for a more democratic campus," Murphy, of Yale, would tell the
Phoenix audience. "It's a wonderful thing to point to a kid and say, 'Let's
admit this one,' and not worry about how he or she's going to pay for it."

   Mulvaney's pat spiel emphasized Georgetown's Washington location and Jesuit
roots. Murphy stressed Yale's classroom excellence - "the finest undergraduate
education in the country today." Rouse hammered at Penn's connection with
Franklin.

   The three answered questions about crime, dorms and East Coast weather.
"You're trying to convince a kid," Murphy said beforehand, "that he can go all
those thousands of miles away and still be happy.'

   Parents asked what special elements the admissions gurus seek in an
application.

   "We're not looking for any one thing," said Murphy, who has read 27,000
applications in 25 years at Yale. "Present the person that you are. Don't try to
figure out what Penn is looking for, what Yale is looking for." The essay is
crucial, Murphy added. The good ones, he said, are thoughtful and reflective.
"The whole point is stopping and thinking about who you are."

   In the Arizona audiences, high achievement vied with high anxiety. There was
Eric Brandt, 16, the Tucson fire chief's son who has won national science awards
for a project involving gene therapy and computers.

   There was Dawn Noel, 17, also of Tucson, who studies five hours a night,
takes advanced placement courses in everything from Spanish to macroeconomics to
calculus, who's president of the school business club, and belongs to four other
clubs and the National Honor Society, does lots of community-service work - and
worries she won't get into Penn or Cornell. If all else fails, there's Arizona
State.

   There was Robert Hines, 16, a cross-country star and one of the few black
students in his Scottsdale, Ariz., high school. He's being courted by Columbia
but is also thinking of studying journalism at Northwestern or business at Penn.

   Dorothy Hines, his mother, admitted to butterflies when the three admissions
officers described the general criteria for getting in. "I was concerned," she
said, "whether a 3.7 to 3.8 grade average and a 1,240 SAT was strong enough to
get him in."

   What she heard reassured her. She pinched Robert on the leg and whispered: "I
think we got it made."

NOTES: Creating the class of 2000: One in a series
of occasional articles about college admissions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (1)
1. "He is so cool," one high school senior said of admissions officer
Allison Rouse. Says Rouse: "If I'm having a bad day, I start talking to 200
people about Penn and I cheer right up." (The Philadelphia Inquirer, APRIL
SAUL)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              47 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 27, 1995, Monday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: The MD mystery;
Parents of Duchenne MD patients create information clearinghouse, hope to spur
more medical research

BYLINE: Byron Spice, Science Editor, Post-Gazette

BODY:


   As a gambler, Patricia Furlong believes in spreading out her bets. Letting
everything ride on one horse, she says, is just too risky.

   As a parent of two boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Furlong fears that
too many scientists are one-horse bettors. Having seen many promising colts turn
into nags, she figures she has too much riding on the outcome to give any one of
them free rein.

   So Furlong, who lives in a suburb between Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio, has
joined with other parents of Duchenne boys to form what they call the Parent
Project for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Research. Having dug deep into their own
pockets and biopsied the wallets of several corporate patrons, the parents
earlier this month announced the opening of a Duchenne research center at the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

   For now, their sponsorship amounts to just $ 150,000 a year to support the
laboratory of Eric Hoffman, a Pitt molecular geneticist who made his mark at
Harvard University in the late 1980s by discovering the genetic defect
responsible for Duchenne.

   But Furlong said the parents' plans to hold researchers accountable has
intrigued several potential corporate sponsors. The Parent Project envisions a
center that can give Duchenne patients and their families a comprehensive view
of what is available to treat the disease and where the most promising research
is taking place.

   ''The function of the center is very broad,'' Hoffman said. The center will
pursue both basic research into the mechanisms of the disease and clinical
research. It also will serve as a clearinghouse for parents who need expert
analysis of experimental treatments they are considering for their sons.

   Furlong has been searching for such a center for more than a decade, ever
since she discovered her boys had Duchenne, the most common and deadly form of
the muscle-wasting disease.

   Her sons, Christopher and Patrick, were then ages 6 and 4, respectively. They
were outside playing on their Big Wheels one evening when Christopher happened
to flex his foot. There was an audible snap and his calf suddenly enlarged. She
knew something horrible had happened when she saw her doctor husband, Tom, begin
to cry.

   A family practitioner, Tom refused to make the diagnosis. But the next day a
specialist only had to take one look at Christopher to determine he had
Duchenne, a disease that cripples and kills boys, usually before they reach age
20. Only boys suffer Duchenne, which is caused by a defect in a huge gene found
on the X chromosome.

   Christopher's brother, Patrick, was diagnosed with Duchenne in short order.

   ''Medically, we knew there was nothing,'' Furlong recalled. ''Intellectually,
I knew there was nothing. But in my heart, I knew there must be something.''

   So Furlong, a nurse, took out a bank loan and began searching the world for
hope. Though many scientists were studying muscular dystrophy, they generally
concentrated only on their own theories or therapies and knew little about what
was available elsewhere.

   She also made quarterly visits to the Muscular Dystrophy Association to learn
what was new. But the association concerns itself with all of the many forms of
muscular dystrophies, not just Duchenne, and encompasses not just research, but
also services such as providing wheelchairs.

   ''We don't intend to infringe on their territory,'' Furlong said of the
association. But the Parent Project wants to mount a focused research effort
that has a chance of finding a cure for Duchenne before their children's time is
up.

   Ronald J. Schenkenberger, director of research and patient services
administration for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, said the Parent Project
was just one of 16 national organizations that address one of the 40
dystrophies. Most are organized by parents, he said, ''and they all have a
function and their particular focus.''

   Though additional support for Duchenne research is welcomed, Schenkenberger
maintained the association has not neglected this area. It gives Hoffman alone
about $ 500,000 annually and has spent about $ 2 million on work that would lead
to gene therapy for Duchenne.

   Furlong knows the pace of research can be agonizingly slow. Her older son,
Christopher, died of pneumonia eight weeks ago at age 17. She is proud of the
pluck demonstrated by her son, Patrick, 15, who uses a wheelchair and has
limited use of his arms, but she knows he is worried. ''You can see it on his
face,'' she said.

   Myoblast transfer -- the injection of healthy ''precursor'' cells that help
repair muscle damage -- was a controversial and ultimately unsuccessful
experiment only a few years ago. Hoffman's discovery of the gene that makes
dystrophin, a muscle-reinforcing protein that is missing in Duchenne patients,
raised hopes of a gene therapy. Yet he and other Pitt researchers freely
acknowledge it will be years before such a treatment is technically feasible.

   Problems include the sheer size of the dystrophin gene, which is about 10
times bigger than any other known gene, and the difficulty inherent in getting
the gene inside each muscle cell.

   Luckily, only the information on comparatively small portions of the
dystrophin gene is necessary to produce dystrophin. Pitt's Dr. Paula Clemens
said mouse studies have demonstrated that muscle cells can be made to produce
dystrophin if this shortened version of the gene can be placed in the cell.

   One strategy to do so is to incorporate the necessary genetic information
inside an altered virus; this viral ''vector'' then infects the cells, carrying
the genetic information with it. Clemens is developing viral vectors against
Duchenne that are based on the adenovirus, a common virus that causes coldlike
respiratory infections.

   The adenovirus, altered so as not to make the patient ill, has been a popular
vector for aspiring gene therapists and is promising for muscular dystrophy
because it can infect nondividing cells, such as muscle cells, Clemens said.

   But she and Joseph Glorioso, director of Pitt's Human Gene Therapy Center,
said the vector may have trouble getting through protective membranes
surrounding the muscle cells of anyone older than a newborn. The correct
versions of the dystrophin gene might also result in cellular changes that would
cause the body to recognize the cell as foreign, setting off an immune reaction.

   Glorioso said gene therapy thus may ultimately prove effective only when
performed prior to birth, based on a prenatal diagnosis of Duchenne.

   ''The biology is not totally clear yet,'' he acknowledged.

   Hoffman emphasized that gene therapy is only one possible approach to
treatment. A better understanding of the disease may provide some clues.

   Dystrophin is one of several proteins that reinforce the cell walls of
muscles. A boy with Duchenne lacks dystrophin, making his muscles susceptible to
damage.

   That's not the whole story, however. Thousands of muscle fibers will die at a
time, yet not all muscle fibers die. Strong muscles can exist next to weak ones.
Hoffman said there may be some sort of intercellular communication at work,
signaling bundles of fibers to die, but not others.

   Interrupting such communication might stop progression of the disease.
Likewise, the immune system may play a role in muscle wasting; perhaps
suppressing the immune system, as is done in organ transplant patients, may
prove to be a treatment.

   ''Obviously, there's a lot more going on than just dystrophin missing,''
Hoffman said.

   To further explore these issues, Hoffman is collaborating with Dr. Joseph
Kornegay, chairman of veterinary medicine and surgery at the University of
Missouri School of Veterinary Medicine. Kornegay has a colony of golden
retrievers that have the naturally occurring canine form of muscular dystrophy.

   Kornegay said working with the Duchenne center will provide him a sounding
board for evaluating requests by individual investigators for experiments
involving his dogs. It also will provide a mechanism by which he can provide
tissue and blood samples from his dogs to Duchenne researchers.

   Furlong said this type of sharing of information between scientists is one of
the main reasons the Parent Project sought to establish a research center. But
the parents also hope to encourage sharing between parents and researchers.

   ''They need to see our urgency,'' she explained, ''and we need to see the
enormity of the problem.''

The root of muscular dystrophy

   Muscle cells do their work by alternately relaxing and contracting and in the
process put great strain on the plasma membrane surrounding each cell.
Researchers believe that the various forms of muscular dystrophy occur because
of defects in the proteins that reinforce the inner and outer walls of the
membrane.

   Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by the lack of the protein dystrophin
on the interior wall of the membrane; dystrophin is altered or reduced in cases
of Becker muscular dystrophy.

   Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy and autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy are
among the diseases associated with alterations of the sarcoglycans, proteins
that cross the membrane, attaching to reinforcing proteins on each side.

   Mutations of the gene for merosin, found on the exterior of the membrane, is
linked with severe congenital muscular dystrophy.

Information sources for patients, families

   Some sources of information regarding muscular dystrophy:

   -- Muscular Dystrophy Association: 823-4094. Sponsors clinics at Children's
Hospital and Falk Clinic, provides counseling, therapy and equipment.

   -- Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Research Center: 648-9793.

   -- Parent Project for Muscular Dystrophy Research Inc.: (800) 714-5437.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette: Eric
Hoffman, who discovered the genetic defect responsible for Duchenne, is
continuing his research into muscular dystrophy in a new research center at the
University of Pittsburgh.; INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Post-Gazette: (The root of
muscular dystrophy)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995


                              48 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    November 26, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWPOINTS, Pg. 12F

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: THEY'RE CLOSING IN ON GENE THAT PROTECTS FROM DIABETES

BYLINE: EDWARD COLIMORE; Knight-Ridder

BODY:


   The medical researchers are closing in day by day, like detectives on the
trail of an elusive criminal. Five years ago, they followed their suspect into a
microscopic world, to part of a single chromosome.

   Then, eight months ago, while looking for more clues, they walked across the
culprit's neighborhood, gene by gene.

   Now, the search is door to door, say researchers at the Coriell Institute for
Medical Research in Camden, N.J., who are hunting for the gene or genes on
Chromosome 6 that protect people from developing diabetes.

   They're also trying to determine how an altered form of this gene makes
people more susceptible to the disease.

   "We know we're in the right place," said Coriell president David P. Beck,
"but the level of detail is extremely fine. We could find what we're looking for
tomorrow or in three years."

   If scientists can pinpoint the "susceptibility" gene that seems to cause
diabetes or the "protective" gene that prevents it, they'll try to develop gene
therapies or drugs to head off the onset of the disease.

   About two dozen facilities around the world -- including Harvard, the
University of Pennsylvania and research sites in England and France -- are
hunting for the gene or genes responsible for diabetes.

   Only Coriell and a couple of other institutions are concentrating the search
on a protective gene, Beck said.

   "Technology has moved to the point where we can hope to understand diabetes,"
said Beck. "It's a very, very old disease. You can see references to it in the
ancient Greek medical texts. Here we are thousands of years later and we have
insulin -- a halfway technology. It only treats the symptoms."

   Marie L. Hoover heads up diabetes work at the institute. She is convinced she
will find the protective gene -- and then "the biggest questions will be: What
does it do, how does it work?"

GRAPHIC: Knight-Ridder; Marie L. Hoover in her lab at Coriell Institute.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1995


                              49 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     NOVEMBER 26, 1995 Sunday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: QUICKENING PACE OF DISCOVERY HAS INVESTORS SEEING GOLD IN GENES ARE
TOO MANY PATENTS BEING SOUGHT? AND TOO MANY GRANTED?

BYLINE: Robert S. Boyd, INQUIRER WASHINGTON BUREAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   As fast as scientists can find them, the genes in tomatoes, goats, people and
other living creatures are being commercialized by private industry.

   In the last two years, biotechnology companies have applied for patents on
hundreds of thousands of segments of human DNA, the threadlike molecule on which
genes are strung.

   Patents - which give inventors exclusive rights to market their discoveries
for 20 years - have also been sought, and sometimes granted, for genetically
engineered animals, plants and other lower forms of life.

   Billions of dollars and thousands of American jobs are at stake in this
genetic gold rush. But some analysts fear that biotechnology patents are being
granted for minor variations, which they say could lead to a thicket of
litigation that could stifle instead of stimulate scientific progress.

   Other critics raise ethical and religious objections to what Methodist Bishop
Kenneth Carder called "the commodification of life."

   "We believe that humans and animals are creations of God, not humans, and as
such should not be patented as human inventions," a coalition of 80 religious
organizations, led by the United Methodist Church, declared in May.

   Patents are nothing new; they have been part of the American system since
colonial days. Their purpose, as spelled out in Article I of the Constitution,
is to "promote the progress of science and useful arts" by rewarding innovation.

   Particularly when government spending for science and technology is
shrinking, patents are a useful incentive to private investors to keep research
money flowing.

   But patenting living things is a recent development.

   The Supreme Court opened the floodgates in 1980 when it ruled that a General
Electric Co. scientist, Ananada Chakrabarty, could patent a microbe that breaks
down crude oil.

   "Anything under the sun that is made by man" can be patented, the court
declared.

   Genetic patent-seekers promptly began moving up the biological ladder leading
from microbes to plants to animals and ultimately to humans.

   Starting in the early 1980s, scores of genetically engineered plants have
been patented. The slow-to-spoil Flavr-Savr tomato developed by Calgene, Inc.,
of Davis, Calif., is a well-known example.

   Much greater sums are at stake in patents granted to Agracetus, Inc., of
Middleton, Wis., for all forms of genetically engineered varieties of cotton and
soybeans, a potential multibillion-dollar harvest.

   "All transgenic cotton products . . . will have to be commercially licensed
through us before they can enter the marketplace," Russell Smestad, vice
president of Agracetus, a subsidiary of W. R. Grace & Co., of Boca Raton, Fla.,
told AgBiotechnology News.

   In 1988, Harvard University received the first patent on a living animal, a
genetically modified mouse used for cancer research. The "Harvard Mouse" caused
an uproar and led to Senate hearings, but no action was taken. At least seven
other species of animals have since been patented.

   In September the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of genetically
altered goats to produce medicines for heart and blood diseases. These
"transgenic goats" were patented by Genzyme Transgenics Corp. of Framingham,
Mass.

   Starting in 1991, the National Institutes of Health sought to patent
thousands of fragments of human DNA discovered by government researchers. Some
scientists and ethicists objected vigorously, and last year the Clinton
administration withdrew requests covering 6,869 DNA segments.

   Harold Varmus, the new NIH director, said such early-stage patents, when the
functions of the gene are unknown, are "not in the best interests of the public
or science (and) may impede important research collaborations."

   The U.S. Patent Office has declared that it cannot grant patents on human
beings or human genes, since they are not manmade but a "phenomenon of nature."

   But products produced from genes, the molecular code for genes, and gene-
therapy techniques can be patented.

   And sometimes the line between what is patentable and what is not gets
blurry, according to Hope Shand, a critic of genetic patents who works at the
Rural Advancement Foundation International in Pittsboro, N.C.

   For example, the Patent Office is weighing applications for almost half a
million snippets of human DNA, including the code for approximately 100 complete
genes, submitted by two three-year-old biotechnology companies, Incyte
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., of Palo Alto, Calif., and Human Genome Sciences, Inc., of
Gaithersburg, Md.

   Incyte has filed patent applications covering more than 100,000 partial genes
that it has identified and stored in its computer database, according to Barbara
Luther, the company's patent lawyer.

   "Other companies are filing for patents. We don't want to be locked out,"
Luther said.

   According to Incyte's latest annual report, the company's goal is to create a
catalogue containing the complete code for all estimated 100,000 human genes.
The company will exploit the "commercial value" of the catalog by offering
"one-stop shopping for genes," the report said.

   Two major pharmaceutical manufacturers, Pfizer Inc., of New York, and Upjohn
Co., of Kalamazoo, Mich., are investing $45 million in Incyte for access to its
database. Fortune magazine rated Incyte stock among the "Top 25 Best Performers"
on the American Stock Exchange in 1994.

   Meanwhile, Human Genome Sciences has filed at least 25 patent applications
covering more than 200,000 partial genes sequences analyzed by its computers.

   William Haseltine, chief executive of Human Genome Sciences, told
shareholders last December that the firm "has now identified approximately 100
new human genes that may have potential medical utility."

   SmithKline Beecham, a major drug manufacturer based in Philadelphia, is
investing $100 million in Human Genome Sciences, in return for first claim on
any commercially valuable products resulting from its work.

   One of the most sweeping human patents was issued this spring to three
federal researchers at the National Institutes of Health. The patent covers "any
method" of gene therapy that involves taking cells from a patient, modifying
them in the laboratory, and reinserting them to cure cancer or other diseases.

   This is the so-called "ex vivo" process that was used five years ago in the
first application of gene therapy, to two Ohio girls, Ashanthi DeSilva and
Cynthia Cutshall. So far all successful gene-therapy treatments have used this
technique.

   Biotechnology leaders and many researchers insist that without the
financial incentives that patents provide, private investors would not put up
the money to pay for scientific discoveries and new medicines.

   "There has to be an incentive to invent, a chance of getting a return," Craig
Venter, founder of Human Genome Sciences, told a conference on the human genome
last fall.

   Henri Termeer, chairman of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, said the
religious leaders' campaign against patents on animals and human genes "is yet
another example of the public's ignorance of the private sector's role in
technological progress."

   But Rebecca Eisenberg, a law professor at the University of Michigan who
specializes in patent law, told an NIH panel on gene therapy in July that the
"growing grubby group of patent seekers" may have gone too far. She warned the
panel that expensive patent lawsuits and high royalty fees threaten to slow
scientific progress.

   "Institutions are more aggressive about pursuing patent rights and more
greedy about the terms on which they license their patents," Eisenberg said.
"Many of these patents look like toll booths on the road to product
development."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              50 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     November 26, 1995 Sunday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 28A

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: MILKEN PUTS HIS MONEY ON CANCER RESEARCH

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:

   One very bad day almost three years ago, Michael Milken learned he had
prostate cancer.

   It was the very day he got out of the Vinewood Community Correctional Center,
a shabby halfway house in Los Angeles where he finished up his two-year prison
stretch for securities fraud. He had paid $1.1 billion in fines and civil
settlements. He was banned for life from the securities business. His name was a
synonym for '80s greed.

   Now this.

   Soon, he would learn just how much worse things could get. It turned out the
cancer had already spread away from his prostate gland. It was an especially
aggressive form and too late for surgery. At this stage, the cancer was
incurable. Treatment could only delay the inevitable.

   His doctor told him the odds: There was about a 30 percent chance he'd be
dead within two years.

   He was 46.

   Three months later, Milken knew what he wanted. He went to a conference of
urologists in San Antonio, Texas, and invited Dr. Patrick Walsh of Johns Hopkins
University, perhaps the best-known prostate surgeon in the country, and some
other big-name specialists to a 6 a.m. breakfast.

   What he proposed was pretty simple - an all-out "Manhattan project" to cure
advanced prostate cancer. Milken asked the doctors to come up with their best
ideas, and he'd do the rest. He'd bring in the brightest minds in the business;
he'd supply the money; he'd get rid of the paperwork.

   "Our feeling was: Let's go out and recruit great thinkers who might be able
to help us and ask them to work for a year or more on cancer," Milken said in a
recent interview. "We wanted to see what we could do in a few years, not a few
decades."

   Some hesitated at first. This was, after all, the man the media call "the
disgraced junk bond king." Did they really want to link their reputations to
his?

   In time, many did. In a dozen interviews, researchers told of being impressed
by Milken's determination, his intensity, his intellect. And, of course, his
money: Milken's fortune has been estimated at $550 million.

   "I've seen a lot of celebrities develop prostate cancer and be told good
treatments are not available, and I've seen their reactions," Walsh said.
"Michael's is very unusual and positive. He really is trying to change the
world."

   Since that meeting in May 1993, Milken has founded a prostate cancer
foundation. He has spent $20 million of his own money on research. He has
attracted some of the superstars of science to his problem. And he has, to hear
the experts tell it, literally galvanized the field of advanced prostate cancer.

   Certainly other rich people have made grand donations to study the ills that
afflict them. In October, for example, industrialist Jon M. Huntsman Sr., who
has had prostate and mouth cancer, pledged $100 million to the University of
Utah to study cancer genetics. But no one in science can remember anything quite
like Milken's attempt to vitalize and lead the nation's effort to control his
own disease.

   His new organization, called CaP CURE, the Association for the Cure of Cancer
of the Prostate, based in Santa Monica, Calif., is now the United States' second
biggest sponsor of prostate research, behind the National Cancer Institute but
ahead of the American Cancer Society.

   Many of those who have spent their careers on this disease quietly doubt that
Milken's Manhattan Project will succeed in time to help him. Curing prostate
cancer, they say, is far, far harder than building the bomb.

   When Milken began investigating his disease, he found a research backwater.
Prostate cancer kills 40,000 men annually, almost as many victims as breast
cancer, but with little of its scientific or political cachet. At last May's
meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, for instance, there were
112 reports on breast cancer, compared to 37 on prostate cancer.

   "It was not seen as an interesting disease, because it only occurs in old
men," said Dr. Harmon Eyre, the cancer society's research director. "There were
no ideas about the cause. There was confusion about the treatment. And there
were no new insights into what should be done in research. Then along come Bob
Dole and Michael Milken."

   Dole, a prostate cancer survivor, helped pass legislation that has doubled
National Cancer Institute spending on prostate cancer since 1992. This year's
budget is $50 million, compared with $313 million for breast cancer.

   In 1993, CaP CURE got 85 requests for grants and funded 30 of them. In 1994,
there were 265 requests; it funded 46. This year, 529 researchers from around
the world came to CaP CURE for research support, and it is backing 62.

   The money has gone largely to the country's premier research institutions,
such as Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Stanford, even the National Cancer Institute.

   While CaP CURE is paying for some research into basic cancer biology, much of
its money explores ideas that could - if they work - quickly lead to treatments.
These include experiments in gene therapy, cancer vaccines, vitamin treatments
and dietary effects.

   Dr. Stuart Holden at Cedars Sinai Medical Center said at least 10 of its
projects have reached human testing.

   Milken himself "is arguably one of the biggest experts in the world in
prostate cancer," said Dr. Philip Kantoff of the Dana- Farber Cancer Institute
in Boston. "It's more than just philanthropy at this point. It's an organization
that is trying to create something."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY ASSOCIATED PRESS; Since being diagnosed with prostate cancer,
Michael Milken has founded a prostate cancer foundation and spent $20 million of
his own money on research.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1995


                              51 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                    NOVEMBER 24, 1995, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: New Era for Parkinson's Treatment
 Recent drug therapy advances and promising new methods offer h

BYLINE: Carl T. Hall, Chronicle Staff Writer

BODY:

    U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno's recent diagnosis with Parkinson's disease
was hardly the crippling sentence many people immediately supposed.

   Although there's still no cure in sight for Parkinson's, recent advances in
drug therapy have made it a far easier condition to manage. In many cases, the
disease's tell-tale symptoms of trembling and loss of motor function can be kept
at bay for years. Nor is it considered a fatal disease, although it can be
deadly if symptoms become so severe that bodily functions are interrupted.

   Reno's only symptom so far has been a persistent trembling in her left hand.
Doctors said she is expected to do well using current drug therapy.

   Now, a number of researchers may be closing in on new treatments that might
be ready in time to help Reno as her case progresses, along with many of the
other 1 million to 2 million Americans who suffer from the degenerative brain
disease.

   ''If you ever had to have Parkinson's, now is the time,'' said Dr. Dee
Silver, a Parkinson's specialist who practices in the San Diego area.

   Various drugs that may be useful in some cases already are on the market,
including Sinamet, made by Dupont Pharmaceuticals; Eldepryl and Parlodel, from
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals; and Permax, from a collaboration between Eli Lilly and
South San Francisco-based Athena Neurosciences Inc.

   The problem with these drugs is that the side effects -- including wild,
uncontrollable movement and hallucinations -- can be worse than symptoms of the
disease itself, especially after the drugs are taken for a number of years.

   Clinicians lately have learned to minimize these side effects, at least in
many patients, by using drugs in carefully monitored combinations and varying
the dosages.

   ''There has been progress,'' said Kimberly Kirkland Seidman, West Coast
director of the National Parkinson's Foundation, although she added that ''it
has not yet gotten to the point where the life of a Parkinson's patient is even
close to being easy.''

   That might only happen when certain chemical imbalances in the brain thought
to explain Parkinson's can be fixed at their source. The Holy Grail of research
is to create a self-sustaining source of a substance known as dopamine, a
neurotransmitter the brain needs to carry on its routine work.

   Somatix Therapy Corp., based in Alameda, is conducting early-stage testing of
one new approach in which skin cells are re-engineered into tiny
neurotransmitter ''factories.'' These might then be surgically implanted in the
brain, where they would churn out a dopamine precursor missing in Parkinson's
cases.

   Another hope involves a viral ''gene therapy'' system. A virus is first
disabled so it can no longer make a patient sick. Then it is loaded with
critical genetic material and allowed to ''infect'' the Parkinson's sufferer in
a way that might fix the brain imbalance.

   It's a risky procedure, and so far it hasn't advanced beyond the
animal-testing stage. But early results are encouraging, according to Dr.  Krys
Bankiewicz, a Somatix neuroscientist.

   ''Delivering a drug into the brain gets pretty complicated,'' he said.  ''We
will have to go through many phases of clinical trials before we would be able
to offer anything. It's still experimental -- but it's promising.''

   Amgen Inc., the big biotech company in Thousand Oaks, is starting to generate
some interest with a recombinant ''growth factor'' pioneered by Dr.  Frank
Collins at Synergen, a now-defunct biotech company that Amgen acquired.

   The Amgen protein, known as GDNF for ''glial-derived neurotrophic factor,''
might help restore dopamine production if it could be delivered to the right
part of the brain.

   Encouraging laboratory results were reported at a recent scientific meeting.
Amgen said it hopes to begin trials in patients sometime next year.

   Meanwhile, companies such as CytoTherapeutics Inc., based in Providence,
R.I., are trying to perfect the critical drug-delivery technologies.

   Harry Tracy, editor of the Rye, N.H.-based NeuroInvestment Newsletter, said
the CytoTherapeutics approach may play a fundamental role in a number of
cutting-edge treatments. He likened it to the role of booster rockets in space
exploration, where Cyto-Therapeutics would make the ''boosters'' used to deliver
various payloads.

   ''It's one thing to be able to build a great satellite. You need a booster to
get it into orbit,'' Tracy said.

   If this were the space program, though, a successful moon shot would still be
a long way off.

    FACTS ON PARKINSON'S DISEASE

    U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno's revelation that she has been diagnosed
with Parkinson's disease focused new attention on a condition that afflicts as
many as 2 million Americans:

   * What is it?

   Named after the 18th century English physician James Parkinson, the disease
is a slowly degenerative neurological disorder believed to be related to a
chemical imbalance in the brain.

   * Who gets it?

   An estimated 1 million Americans have been diagnosed. Perhaps as many as 1
million more go undiagnosed. About 80 percent of victims are said to be over age
40, but it afflicts younger people, too, including rare cases in young children.

   * What are the main symptoms?

   Stiffness in the arms, legs or neck; tremor, most prominent at rest;
difficulty initiating movement; loss of balance.

   * What causes it?

   A small area in the brain called the substantia nigra produces a chemical
called dopamine, which travels to another portion of the brain -- the striatum
-- a coordination center for various neurochemicals. In Parkinson's patients,
cells in the substantia nigra begin to die, resulting in less dopamine, which
creates an imbalance in the striatum.

   * Can it be cured?

   Not yet. Scientists are working on so-called growth factors that may help
restore dopamine production. Experimental surgical techniques and genetic causes
also are being pursued.

   * Can symptoms be controlled?

   Partially. Dopamine-replacement drugs are the standard treatment now,
although these may cause severe side effects after a few years of treatment.
Surgery can help some patients.


   Source: American Academy of Neurology,

    National Parkinson's Foundation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,JANET RENO , Attorney general was diagnosed

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1995


                              52 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       November 22, 1995 Wednesday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. D14

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: HEART DISEASE IS LINKED TO AGE BREAKDOWN OF CELLS

BYLINE: By LAURA MYERS Associated Press writer

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists have linked cardiovascular disease to an age-related breakdown of
cells, according to a study released Monday that provides insight into how
people get sick as they age.

   The study by the Geron Corp. suggests that identifying aging cells which have
lost the ability to divide could predict the build-up of fatty plaque on a
person's inner arterial walls, according to scientists.

   A related study by the National Institute on Aging found evidence that a
cell's decreasing ability to replicate itself is also linked to a weakened
immune system in older patients.

   "These studies just build on the discovery of a so-called molecular clock
that controls how cells age," said Carole Melis, a spokeswoman for Geron, based
in Menlo Park, Calif. "The theory is that we die not because we wear out, but
because we're programmed to at a certain point."

   Both studies, published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, looked at a segment of DNA called the telomere - the heart of the
molecular clock. The telomere controls genetic reproduction when a cell divides
to create a new cell.

   Recent studies have shown the telomere is shortened slightly each time a cell
divides until it is nearly gone and the cell can't replicate itself. It's like
the plastic tip of a shoelace fraying until it's no longer useful, according to
Calvin Harley, author of the Geron study.

   "The problem is these cells don't die, they just sit there doing damage," he
said. "It's like an old car that doesn't run and is sitting in the back yard
rusting away and damaging the environment."

   Geron scientists examined the telomere length in the primary cells and tissue
separating the blood vessel wall from the blood, and found that the cells indeed
get shorter as they divide and age. Telomere loss was greatest in artery cells,
implying the breakdown may contribute to atherosclerotic plaque formation and
thrombosis, or blood clotting, the study said.

   "We have for the first time directly related cell aging to a major
age-related disease," Harley said. "We look at this research to help us discover
new treatments of major chronic diseases of the elderly."

   Harley said such treatments, which would presumably try to slow or halt the
breakdown of a cell's ability to divide, are years away.

   The National Institute of Aging study found telomere shortening in so-called
T-cells of the elderly, which control a person's immune system, according to Dr.
Richard Hodes, coauthor of the paper.

   Hodes said the results of the study could lead doctors to rethink gene
therapy for elderly and AIDS patients, who may have too many cells no longer
capable of dividing.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1995


                              53 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1995, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Science Desk;  Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Heart Disease and Cell Breakdown

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

BODY:

   Scientists have linked cardiovascular disease to an age-related breakdown of
cells, according to a study released Monday.

   The study, by the Geron Corporation of Menlo Park, Calif., suggests that
identifying aging cells that have lost the ability to divide could predict the
build-up of fatty plaque on a person's inner arterial walls.

    A related study by the National Institute on Aging found evidence that a
cell's decreasing ability to replicate itself is also linked to a weakened
immune system in older patients.

   "These studies just build on the discovery of a so-called molecular clock
that controls how cells age," said Carole Melis, a spokeswoman for Geron. "The
theory is that we die not because we wear out, but because we're programmed to
at a certain point."

   Both studies, published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, looked at a segment of DNA called the telomere, the heart of the
molecular clock. The telomere controls genetic reproduction when a cell divides
to create a new cell. Studies in the last few years have shown the telomere is
shortened slightly each time a cell divides until it is nearly gone and the cell
cannot replicate itself.

   It is like the plastic tip of a shoelace fraying until it is no longer
useful, according to Dr. Calvin Harley, author of the Geron study. "The problem
is these cells don't die, they just sit there doing damage," he said.

   Geron scientists examined the telomere length in the primary cells and tissue
separating the blood vessel wall from the blood and found that the cells indeed
get shorter as they divide and age. Telomere loss was greatest in artery cells,
implying the breakdown may contribute to formation of atherosclerotic plaque and
thrombosis, or blood clotting.

   "We have for the first time directly related cell aging to a major
age-related disease," Dr. Harley said. "We look at this research to help us
discover new treatments of major chronic diseases of the elderly."

   He said such treatments, which would presumably try to slow or halt the
breakdown of a cell's ability to divide, are years away.

   The National Institute of Aging study found telomere shortening in so-called
T-cells of the elderly, which control a person's immune system, said Dr. Richard
Hodes, co-author of the paper. He said the results of the study could lead
doctors to rethink gene therapy for elderly people and AIDS patients, who may
have too many cells no longer capable of dividing.

   "In instances where the potential for cell replication is important, this
could be a deciding factor in how to go about treatment," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1995


                              54 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                    November 19, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Optimism greets FDA reforms; Biotech firms predict easier medicine
trials

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   From his office at the Ft. Holabird Industrial Park in southeast Baltimore,
Dr. Craig Smith watches with anticipation as a $ 4 million, cutting-edge
biotechnology laboratory takes shape down the hall.

   The new facility is where scientists at his fledgling biotechnology company,
Guilford Pharmaceuticals, will work to develop breakthrough treatments for
Parkinson's Disease, brain cancer and other life-threatening illnesses. It
represents just the latest of the millions of dollars the company has invested,
including a new $ 2 million production facility, in the hope of future profits.

   Dr. Smith and many other biotechnology executives in Maryland and the nation
are breathing a lot easier these days about such big up-front investments now
that the Food and Drug Administration has revamped a host of regulations
governing the industry.

   The FDA reforms, which many in the industry consider the most significant and
sweeping in 50 years, were announced earlier this month by Vice President Al
Gore and Maryland Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski, who has played a key role in
streamlining the FDA.

   In short, say company executives and industry experts, the reforms taking
effect over the next few months should dramatically cut down on the time and
cost of getting new biotechnology-derived drugs into clinical trials and
eventually to market.

   Currently, the average cost of taking a drug from lab to market is $ 150
million.

   "Ultimately, these reforms should result in important new products getting
into the market quicker so a company can start making money on its investment
earlier," said Dr. Smith.

   "A six-month or one-year delay in getting a product into the market can have
a huge impact on its net value. Hopefully, this is the beginning of a process
that will bring a lot of badly needed reform to the FDA that will streamline how
new medicines are approved."

   Said William Washecka, director of high technology and life sciences for
Ernst & Young, the national professional services firm: "Ten years from now, the
hope would be that the FDA reforms will be seen as a defining turning point for
biotechnology. This is part of the evolutionary process for the industry."

   In the long term, say industry experts, the reforms should bode well for
venture capitalists, shareholders and other investors, including Maryland
taxpayers who have provided capital to several biotech companies, including
Guilford. The reforms should free company time and money spent on regulatory
issues for research and capital investment.

   Promising reforms

   Three reforms in particular, say industry experts, hold the most promise for
improving the biotech industry. They are:

   * Elimination of a licensing procedure that required a company to seek a
separate license for each facility where it planned to manufacture a drug from
what are called "well-characterized" drugs -- those considered well understood
by scientists. Under the new system, biotechnology companies will only have to
seek one manufacturing license for a drug, no matter how many facilities it
plans to build. This is the same standard used for the traditional
pharmaceutical industry.

   The reform is significant, say industry executives, because the documentation
needed for a manufacturing license is extensive and preparing the documentation
can cost thousands.

   * Elimination of the requirement that each batch of a biotechnology-developed
drug be sent to the FDA to test for quality and safety. Once the FDA approves a
biotech drug for use, no further approvals will be needed. This is a recognition
by the FDA that manufacturing techniques used in the industry are as
systematized and well controlled as those of the pharmaceutical industry, and
should result in significant cost savings for companies, said experts.

   * Imposition of a 30-day deadline for the FDA to respond to a company that
has submitted additional information that was requested after the FDA has put a
clinical trial on hold. If it does not respond, the company may proceed with the
trial without fear of being penalized. Prior to that reform there was no time
restriction with which regulators had to respond to the information the company
submitted.

   "In effect, your trial could be held in limbo," said Dr. Smith.

   Dr. Smith says that concession alone should prove vital, in particular, for
small biotechnology companies that don't have the financial resources to weather
months of not knowing when, or even if, they will be able to proceed with a
human trial.

   "These trials often can be among the most expensive part of getting a drug
into the market," he said.

   Critical time

   The reforms, say industry experts, come at a critical time for biotech
companies, few of which have turned a profit. After spending years -- and
millions of dollars -- on pioneering research, dozens of biotechnology firms
have potential breakthrough medicines either in clinical trials or close to
market approval.

   Regulatory bureaucracy and delays at this juncture could cause some companies
to burn up their capital before they complete their research or drive up the
final cost of a new drug when it does hit the market, noted Dr. James Barrett,
president and chief executive officer of Genetic Therapy Inc. in Gaithersburg,
one of Maryland's oldest biotechnology companies.

   Meanwhile, everyone from executives like Mr. Barrett to bio-ethicists agrees
that the reforms shouldn't diminish the FDA's key role: watching out for public
safety.

   "This is a case where regulations had not kept pace with science," said Adil
E. Shamoo, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and
editor of a journal on biomedical ethics, Accountability in Research.

   "I don't see any reason for concern that safety will be compromised. These
are very appropriate reforms," said Dr. Shamoo.

   He and other biotechnology experts say they are particularly heartened by the
fact that the FDA -- which has a reputation of being as intractable as a pack of
mules -- moved speedily this year to reform its biotechnology regulations. Some
of the rules that were revised were more than 50 years old, harking back to days
when urine was used as a distillate in biological research.

   The industry has been lobbying for reform of what it argued were obsolete and
burdensome rules for at least five years, said Carl Feldbaum, president of the
Biotechnology Industry Organiza

   tion, or BIO, a trade group based in Washington.

   "These reforms and others that are in the pipeline hold the promise of making
biotechnology a better investment," said Mr. Feldbaum.

   Mr. Feldbaum and other industry insiders say the FDA's reform package is a
good signal that more regulatory changes are likely at FDA that could benefit
companies, investors and, ultimately, people desperately in need of new
treatments.

   Dr. Kathryn C. Zoon, director of the FDA's center for Biologics Evaluation
and Research, says those expectations are well founded. The agency already is
working on more reforms that should streamline how biotechnology products are
regulated and bolster public confidence in the biotechnology industry, she said,
though she declined to be specific.

   Venture capital sought

   Meanwhile, Mr. Feldbaum and other biotech advocates are also hopeful the
reforms will lure back venture capitalists and strengthen investor interest in
publicly held biotechnology firms as a sound investment.

   Start-up capital from the VC market has dropped dramatically in the last two
years, according to several studies, because venture backers have found that
they aren't recovering investments within the seven- to 10-year span they
require.

   Seed capital dropped to $ 119 million in 1994, down from a peak of $ 240
million in 1993, according to VentureOne Corp., a venture capital research firm.
And this year, such investment is running 50 percent behind last year's
financings, VentureOne found.

   But don't look for a rush of money to flow into start-ups just yet, say
industry experts.

   "The reforms alone are not going to bring the VCs back to the bio-tech
market," said Mr. Washecka, of Ernst & Young. "Until we see some major
successes, it's pretty clear the venture capitalists are going to resist
additional major investment" in the industry.

   Biotechnology industry analysts say that while streamlining the regulatory
process will prove beneficial to companies by trimming costs, shareholders of
biotechnology stocks shouldn't expect immediate improved earnings or a jump in
stock prices.

   "This is a signal that the FDA is becoming more sensitive to the needs of an
important emerging technology," said Edward Hedaya, an analyst with BioVest
Research Inc. in West Chester, N.Y.

   "But the reforms won't necessarily loosen the checkbooks of investors. That
is still going to depend on successful performance in clinical trials."

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, AMY DAVIS: SUN STAFF, Welcome change: Dr. Craig Smith, CEO
of Guilford Pharmaceuticals, says reforms will get drugs to market faster.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1995


                              55 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                         Copyright 1995 Star Tribune
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                        November 17, 1995, Metro Edition
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: News; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: 'U' Hospital, Fairview System to align;
 Private Fairview will get medical clout; 'U' will get patient referrals

BYLINE: Gordon Slovut; Staff Writer

BODY:

    The University of Minnesota Hospital will enter into a partnership with the
six-hospital Fairview Health System and its 500,000-member health plan, the two
institutions announced Thursday, putting an end to more than year of concern
about the future of the teaching hospital.

    The plan calls for the integration of the two health systems, and
consolidation of their clinical services. But it also means that much of the old
Fairview Riverside complex across the Mississippi River from the university
probably will be torn down.

    The deal marks a historic point for the more than 80-year-old University
Hospital, one of the medical meccas in the Upper Midwest. Like many academic
medical institutions across the country, it has been compelled into partnership
with a private company to ensure patient flow and financial stability.

    "As a stand-alone [institution] we would have faced massive downsizing,"
said Dr. William Brody, provost of the university Academic Health Center.

    Though the hospital's occupancy has been declining in recent years, it has
managed to remain solvent largely by staff reductions and cutbacks in programs
and services.

    With the partnership, Fairview will get clout in the marketplace and access
to some of the premier medical experts in the state. The university will get
badly needed patient referrals from Fairview's hundreds of primary care doctors
and closer ties to the Minnesota community. It also will get additional training
sites for its medical and health care students through Fairview clinics and
hospitals.

    The medical establishment and the hospital staff praised the alliance as an
excellent partnership, but it still isn't clear what effect the integration will
have on the jobs of University Hospital's 4,500 employees and Fairview's 10,500.
Some layoffs are likely because there are overlaps in the two systems.

    Nor is it clear yet which of the departments in each hospital will survive,
or where they will be based.  A detailed plan is expected to be finalized by
Jan. 1, and committees are being formed to work on the specific department
mergers.

    But according to the preliminary plan announced Thursday, which was short on
specifics, research and medical training at the University Hospital would remain
under the university's control. There are indications that management of
University Hospital also would remain with the university administration, which
would allow the deal to avoid a politically charged debate over whether the
state is losing control of a public resource.

    Richard Norling, chief executive officer of Fairview, said the two
organizations are a good fit.  Fairview has a strong base of primary care
physicians and general specialists, but little of the rarefied medical
specialists of University Hospital, which can provide services ranging from
organ and bone marrow transplants to therapy for recurrent or rare cancers and
gene therapy.

    Fairview also owns 60 percent of Preferred One, a preferred-provider
organization with more than 500,000 members in the Upper Midwest.

    That's likely to result in more patients from Fairview being treated at
University Hospital, increasing income.

    The alliance between Fairview and the University Hospital has a small
precedent. In July of 1994 they combined their obstetrics and newborn intensive
care programs on the Fairview Riverside campus.

    The university, which already provides training at most hospitals in the
Twin Cities metropolitan area, also trains physicians in family practice,
obstetrics and neonatal care at Fairview Riverside.

    The University Hospital is not alone in its decision to join up with a
private health care organization.  Facing prospects of declining federal funds
and with their specialty referrals clipped by managed-care organizations, many
academic hospitals face the survival issue. And many of them have already sold
their hospitals to nonprofit as well as for-profit chains, relieving them of the
burden of supporting the capital-intensive institutions.

    The reaction of the medical staff to the plan was generally positive.

    Dr. Leo Furcht, professor of laboratory medicine and pathology and one of
the seven members of a committee to "reengineer" the Academic Health Center,
said the partnership fits in perfectly with plans to ensure the survival of the
hospital's primary mission: research and training.

    "This puts us in the middle of health care delivery to the community at
large and really deals with the issue of training medical students in primary
care and other things, not just in esoteric medicine as we have trained them in
the past," Furcht said.

    The partnership between Fairview and University reconfigures the health care
competition in the state.  The university had been negotiating with several
other health care organizations about possible partnerships, including Allina,
the largest integrated health system in Minnesota. Allina owns Abbott
Northwestern Hospital, the university's chief competitor in some specialty
fields, and Medica, one of the largest HMOs.

    "We are assuming this is a done deal," said Steve Hillestad, system vice
president of Allina.  "We obviously wish that we could help the university but
we're pleased that the university has found a partner.  We've got all of the
pieces we need, and did not need to partner with the university."

    Some patients covered by Medica, the managed-care arm of Allina, can be
referred to University Hospital.  And some members of HealthPartners, which owns
St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center in St. Paul, also can be referred to University
Hospital for specific services.

    But it is is unclear how they will respond over time to a potential erosion
of their own specialty care businesses.

    Other health care organizations in the state were pleased that it appears
that the university will continue its work in research and education.

    Blue Cross and Blue Shield, of Eagan, the only major Minnesota health
insurer that does not own hospitals, supported Fairview's bid to integrate with
the university. In a letter sent to boards of both organizations, the Blues said
the Fairview affiliation would be the best alternative to help the University
improve care delivery. A Fairview affiliation would also maintain a competitive
hospital market, the Blues wrote in their letter.

    George Halvorson, chief executive officer of HealthPartners, which provides
the largest source of revenue for Fairview Riverside, said he supported
Fairview's proposal to the university.

    "What the university is signaling in doing this is that they don't want to
be in the hospital management business anymore and in fact will be reaching out
more to the community with their specialty business," he said.


    - Staff writer Glenn Howatt contributed to this report.




   University of Minnesota Health System


   The state's preeminent medical research and teaching center, its main
hospital will provide high technology and specialty health care to the Fairview
System.

   Employees: 4,550

   Physician clinics: 7

   Revenues: $ 390 million

   Net income: $ 6.9 million


   University Hospital

   One of the newest hospitals in the Twin Cities, it was built in 1986 on the
University of Minnesota campus on the bluffs above the Mississippi River.

   Physicians: 515

   Residents: 1,247

   Medical school enrollment: 864

   Hospital beds: 560

   Inpatient admissions: 16,855

   Outpatient visits: 398,354




   Fairview Health System


   An integrated health care organization that operates hospitals, clinics and
is 60 percent owner of Preferred One, a preferred provider network.

   Employees: 10,500

   Hospitals: 6

   Physician clinics: 27

   Revenues: $ 514 million

   Net income: $ 21.2 million


   Fairview Riverside Hospital

   Situated across the river from University Hospital, it consists of what was
once St. Mary's and Riverside hospitals. The 100-year old facility would need a
major capital investment to modernize it to current medical standards.

   Physicians: 1,125

   Employees: 3,379

   Hospital beds: 717

   Inpatient admissions: 26,913



CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1995, Metro Edition

CORRECTION:

   - A report on the University of Minnesota Hospital-Fairview Health System
partnership on Page A1 Friday contained three errors.The photo caption said it
will be a six-year partnership. There is no time limitation to the agreement. A
fact box said Fairview Riverside would need a major capital investment to
modernize it to current medical standards. A hospital spokesman said the
hospital meets medical standards. The article also said much of the Fairview
Riverside complex will be torn down. Neither of the two large hospital buildings
will be razed, the spokesman said.

GRAPHIC: Photograph; Illustration; Chart

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1995


                              56 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

             November 16, 1995, THURSDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: New Technology to Speed Mapping of Human DNA

BYLINE: BY JIM RITTER

BODY:


   One of science's biggest challenges is the international effort to map the
building blocks of human DNA -- all 3 billion of them.

   The 15-year Human Genome Project could lead to new drugs, gene therapies and
other weapons against disease.

   Toward that end, scientists on Wednesday described new technology at
southwest suburban Argonne National Laboratory that could speed the laborious
task of deciphering DNA, at a reduced cost.

   The technology "will spread like fire," said Russian scientist Andrei
Mirzabekov, who is leading a team of Russian and American researchers at Argonne
and in Moscow.

   Human DNA, which determines a person's genetic makeup, consists of building
blocks called base pairs. If each base pair were a letter, the information would
fill more than 5,000 300-page books.

   Current technology can be compared to reading one DNA letter at a time. The
new technology uses a "biochip" that reads 20,000 DNA segments, each eight
letters long. The biochip is about the size and shape of a computer microchip.

   It now costs between 50 cents and $ 1 to read each base pair. The new
technology, called sequencing by hybridization, will cost less than a penny a
pair, Mirzabekov said.

   Deciphering human DNA could have many applications. Gene therapy could cure
birth defects and genetic diseases by replacing flawed genes with healthy genes.
And genetic tests could spot people susceptible to hereditary defects and
cancers.

   "It will allow you to find out what diseases you are predisposed to and what
way of life is best for you," Mirzabekov said. "We can know what genetic baggage
we give our offspring."

   The biochip also could decipher non-human DNA, for example, helping doctors
identify disease-causing microbes.

   Mirzabekov teamed with Argonne in part because he couldn't get funding in
Russia's depressed economy. Argonne is spending $ 1.4 million a year on the
project, including $ 350,000 to the Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology in
Moscow.

   Mirzabekov predicts the biochip will be in demand by research labs,
hospitals, industries and universities. But unlike some American
scientist-entrepreneurs, he has no desire to form his own company to sell it.

   "Traditionally in the Soviet Union, no one thought about being rich," he
said. "It is very difficult to change your mentality."

   Argonne, 25 miles southwest of Chicago, is a federal research lab operated by
the University of Chicago.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1995


                              57 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     November 14, 1995 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. 7E

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH LETTERS HEALTHY;
INFORMATION RUNS GAMUT FROM ACHES TO ZYMOSIS

BYLINE: By SUZANNE HAMLIN; NEW YORK TIMES

BODY:

   Those looking for a direct line to nutrition and exercise breakthroughs, new
medical therapies, mental equanimity, increased sexuality and disease prevention
now have a proliferating information resource: the health letter.

   More than 30 of these health and nutrition by-subscription-only newsletters
are flooding mailboxes across the nation every month, up from five or six a
decade ago. They cover almost anything that can happen to the human body, from
warts to cancer, from gene therapy to jet lag.

   Several have circulations of 400,000 or more, larger than many metropolitan
newspapers. Some are written by well-known medical or consumer institutions.
Others are the single voices of provocative renegades. But they all purport to
guide the consumer through a labyrinth of often contradictory health-related
information.

   "Health is the biggest news in America today - it's what makes TV headlines
night after night," said Michael Jacobson, executive director of the nonprofit
Center for Science in the Public Interest and executive editor of its Nutrition
Action Health Letter, which critically reviews brand-name foods.

   It is clear that the newsletters have found a niche as the baby-boom
generation ages. Health - now broadened to include mental as well as physical -
has become a major concern for a growing sector of adults obsessed with
remaining young, vigorous, thin and disease-free. According to interviews with
30 health newsletter publishers and editors, readers are spread equally across
the country, with somewhat more women than men interested enough to subscribe.
Several editors said that women are generally much more open to health
information.

   The majority of health-letter subscribers are affluent, well-educated and
older, "starting at about 50, when we all begin to fall apart," said Lawrence
Lindner, executive editor of the Tufts University Diet & Nutrition Letter, which
began with a focus on nutrition but now includes comprehensive information on
exercise.

   All health letters - some of which do not cite sources for their information
- include a disclaimer of responsibility, stating that their information should
not be taken as personal advice, which should be obtained from a physician.

   Medical information from studies reported in the news media can often be
contradictory, resulting in frustration and confusion. That's where health
newsletters come in.

   Can government studies, Congress and health care programs be trusted as
sources? Emphatically not, writes Dr. Robert C. Atkins, a
diet-guru-turned-health-revolution guru. "You must now learn to take control of
your own health care," he exhorts in his new alternative-medicine newsletter,
Health Revelations. "This is urgent, and will not wait."

   And as greater numbers of research studies are reported, consumers are often
bewildered about how to incorporate the information into their own lives.

   "Even doctors have a hard time keeping up," said Dr. C. Everett Koop, a
former U.S. surgeon general who now heads his own health foundation in Hanover,
N.H. "If a practicing physician reads two medical journals a day, at the end of
a year he would still be 800 journals behind." Membership in the C. Everett Koop
Foundation includes six issues a year of a health letter, a glossy paean to what
good nutrition, a smoke-free environment and exercise can do. Twenty years ago,
long before the idea of nutrition as preventive medicine, the Harvard Health
Letter began to provide monthly medical information for lay readers. Compiled by
staff members at the Harvard University Medical School, it tried to cut through
the medical jargon and to involve a patient in his or her own care. It was so
successful (the present circulation is 250,000) that Harvard has also started
publishing newsletters on women's health, mental health and the heart.

   In 1977, two years after the first Harvard newsletter, the Nutrition Action
Health Letter from the Center for Science in the Public Interest began. That
same year, a group of nutritionists began Environmental Nutrition, a
food-as-health publication.

   The Tufts University Diet and Nutrition Letter, started in 1983, is still
considered a leader in the field, as is the Mayo Clinic Health Letter and the
University of California-Berkeley's Wellness Letter, both first published in
1984.

   Five years ago, alternative-medicine health letters began to appear,
promoting approaches that are often in direct opposition to traditional medical
views. In addition to those produced by august institutions, newsletters are now
offered by holistic practitioners, herbalists, the founder of a woman's health
clinic and at least one chiropractor.

   "We have about 500,000 subscribers now," said Glynnis Mileikowsky, managing
editor of Dr. Julian Whitaker's Health and Healing, a 5-year-old newsletter
written by an iconoclastic doctor who advocates things like shark cartilage for
cancer patients and chromium picolinate for weight loss.

   Whitaker, who conducts seminars, cruises and nationwide walkathons, "provides
an answer for many, many desperate people," Mileikowsky said.

   And increasingly, women are demanding to know more about their health,
particularly from other women. The Harvard Women's Health Watch, which covers
general medicine and psychology, is edited by women doctors at the medical
school. It began in September 1993 and now has 425,000 subscribers. "It's clear
that until recently, women felt they'd been neglected," said Andrea Graham,
publishing director of the Harvard Health Publishing Group.

   The multiplying newsletters, none of which are sold on newsstands, are
neither eye-catching nor inexpensive. Most of the six- to eight-page
8-by-11-inch newsletters have no photographs or advertising, little color, few
graphics and no fancy design work. At an average of $30 for 12 thin issues a
year, they cost more per issue than the New Yorker, at $36 a year for 48 issues.

   "But hey, you don't have all those ads to plow through," said Mary Ann
Clifft, managing editor of the Menninger Letter, a 2-year-old mental health
publication.

   Health letters published by institutions are edited either in house or by
outside editorial services like Health Letter Associates in New York City or
Belvoir Publications in Greenwich, Conn. One independent publisher, Phillips
Publishing Inc. in Potomac, Md., which started out publishing financial
newsletters, has recently begun four alternative-medicine letters and has two
more in the works.

   Aggressively marketed now by mail solicitations, health letters buy mailing
lists from one another because publishers have found that a subscriber to one
health letter will eventually subscribe to two or three.

   The field is becoming both more specific and more competitive. Johns Hopkins
University, which publishes Health After 50, is adding a women's health letter
this year, joining four other women's-interest letters that have appeared in the
last three years.

   The Nutrition Advocate, a health letter focusing on the long-term health
benefits of a vegetarian diet, was started in July by T. Colin Campbell, a
professor of biochemical nutrition at Cornell University.

   And the Massachusetts Medical Society, publisher of the New England Journal
of Medicine, an acknowledged leader in scientific research and opinion and long
a resource for journalists, is not about to be outdone. Its new publication,
Health News, is designed to "react immediately with straight talk on medical
headlines," said Patrick Skerrett, its news editor. Perhaps in anticipation of
making headlines itself, it publishes every three weeks, getting a jump on the
monthlies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY: NEW YORK TIMES; Health newsletters now cover almost anything
that can happen to the human body, from warts to cancer, from gene therapy to
jet lag.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1995


                              58 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    November 13, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F25; WASHINGTON INVESTING

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: 4 More Companies Jump Into a Swelling Market

BYLINE: Stan Hinden , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   And still they come. Trying to catch the market's rising tide. Trying to sell
their shares before investors are scared away by the market's dizzying height.
Trying to get through the door of opportunity before it closes.

   It's been a very good year for the stock market -- and a good year for
companies that wanted to sell stock in initial public offerings, or IPOs. In
fact, money has been so readily available that many companies did second and
third offerings.

   By my count, there have been 12 IPOs so far this year in the Washington
region. That's not a complete list, but it accounts for most of the significant
offerings. This week, there are four more to report. Two are from biotech
companies, one from a medical software company and one from a communications
firm. Here's the rundown:

   Advanta Systems Inc.  of Rockville. Advanta is selling 2 million shares at $
11.50 to $ 13.50 each. At $ 12.50, the sale would raise $ 25 million before
expenses. The underwriters are Alex. Brown & Sons, Hambrecht & Quist and Smith
Barney Inc. The shares would trade on Nasdaq as ADSI.

   Advanta develops computer software for health insurance companies and for
health maintenance organizations. The company was known as AIH Systems Inc. when
it was a part of American International Group, an insurance company. In May
1994, AIH managers bought the division and later changed the name to Advanta
Systems.

   Financing for the buyout was aided by venture capital firms. One was New
Enterprise Associates (NEA) of Baltimore, which will own 27.3 percent of the
company after the stock sale. NEA is represented on the board by general partner
Arthur Marks.

   Another Baltimore investor was ABS Capital Partners L.P., which will own 10.9
percent of the stock after the offering. Donald B. Heeb Jr., former president of
Alex. Brown Inc., serves on the Advanta board.

   Advanta's annual sales have grown rapidly during the past five years to more
than $ 23 million. But profits have been elusive. The company, however, reported
a $ 662,000 profit for the nine months ending Sept. 30.

   Kevin R. Brown, 48, is the chairman, president and chief executive. He joined
the company in 1989, and has 16 years' experience in the managed-care field.

   Bottom line: Advanta is in the right business at the right time -- albeit
with lots of competition. However, it has savvy financial backers. And that
makes the stock promising.

   Omnipoint Corp.  of Arlington. Omnipoint will sell up to $ 86.25 million in
stock, but has not yet revealed how many shares will be sold or at what price.
The underwriters are Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp.; Allen & Co.;
Montgomery Securities; and Salomon Brothers Inc. The stock would trade on Nasdaq
under the symbol OMPT.

   Omnipoint is in the personal communications services business. PCS is
somewhat similar to cellular phones but uses different frequencies. PCS, which
is based on digital technology, will be introduced over the next few years. A
user with a single handset could use PCS on the highway, in the office or at
home. The system could be used to transmit not only conversations but also to
send data to fax machines, pagers and computers. Omnipoint also hopes to offer
small firms an alternative to the local phone company for reaching long-distance
carriers.

   Omnipoint has a tough road ahead. The company won a "pioneer's preference"
from the Federal Communications Commission. And the preference earned Omnipoint
an FCC license to provide wireless services in the New York area. But building
that network will be costly.

   To get this far, Omnipoint spent heavily on research. Since 1987, Omnipoint
has racked up losses of $ 53.7 million. The New York network is being designed.
Omnipoint has a financial partner in the New York effort, Northern Telecom Inc.
But Omnipoint will face competition from the phone companies and from other
firms with PCS licenses.

   Is PCS going to be in demand? Yes. Ten years ago, 340,000 people used
cellular phones. Today, 30 million do. The number of users will continue to grow
rapidly. But the company faces many technical, financial, regulatory and
competitive challenges. Analysts have warned that a glut of competitors could
erode profit margins.

   The driving force behind Omnipoint is entrepreneur Douglas G. Smith, 42, who
serves as chairman, president and chief executive. Smith has a master's degree
in business from Harvard University.

   Bottom line: It's a long, long way to payday on this stock, but high risks
often mean high rewards.

   Fuisz Technologies Ltd.  of Chantilly. The company will sell 2.75 million
shares at an estimated offering of $ 10 to $ 12 a share. At $ 11, the sale would
raise $ 30.25 million before expenses. The underwriters are Smith Barney Inc.
and Lehman Brothers. The company would trade on Nasdaq as FUSE.

   Fuisz, a health products company, has developed techniques to make pills
dissolve rapidly. This is good news for pill takers who may recall a study
showing that some vitamin pills never dissolve.

   The company has developed a way to get tablets to dissolve in the mouth
almost instantly without water (it's called a "flash dose") or dissolve
instantly with a drink of water (that's called a "splash dose"). The firm also
has a tablet that dissolves with a few chews, called an "EZ chew."

   The company says it is working with pharmaceutical companies to incorporate
its technology into over-the-counter pain-killers, cough and cold medications
and antacids. The company suggests pharmaceutical companies will use Fuisz
technology because it will give them a marketing edge. Meanwhile, Fuisz is
trying to make inroads into food products, and is developing long-lasting flavor
systems for chewing gum and candy.

   A early-stage company, Fuisz has an accumulated deficit of $ 23.5 million.
Eventually, the company's revenue is expected to come from licensing its
technology and from manufacturing. The company plans to spend about $ 20 million
for laboratory and production facilities.

   Fuisz holds 29 patents and has filed for others, but at least two other
companies have rapidly-dissolving tablet systems, and others may be in the
works, the firm said. So, competition is a factor.

   The company is headed by Richard C. Fuisz, 55, who invented the company's
technology. Fuisz, who started the company in 1988, previously headed a medical
training company. He is a graduate of Georgetown University Medical School.

   Bottom line: If the company does well, it's sure to be acquired by one of the
major pharmaceutical or food companies.

   Pharmavene Inc.  of Rockville. The company will sell 2 million shares at $ 10
to $ 12. At $ 11, the sale would raise $ 22 million before expenses. The
underwriters are Lehman Brothers and Volpe, Welty & Co. The stock would trade on
Nasdaq under the symbol PHVN.

   Pharmavene is one of several Washington biotech companies started with
financial help from HealthCare Investment Corp., a New Jersey firm headed by the
late Wallace Steinberg. Other area Steinberg-funded companies include Genetic
Therapy Inc., MedImmune Inc. and Human Genome Sciences Inc. If Pharmavene's sale
goes as planned, HealthCare Investment partnerships will still own 55 percent of
the stock.

   Pharmavene, which opened in 1990, is a drug company working on products used
to treat cocaine withdrawal problems and various medical conditions. New drugs
must win approval from the Food and Drug Administration. And Pharmavene's top
candidate for FDA approval is Carbatrol, used to treat epilepsy. The company
also is designing treatments for Parkinson's Disease, migraine headaches and
diabetes. The company develops ways to administer medications so that they are
well absorbed by the body.

   Pharmavene, like most young biotech companies tends to "burn" money while
waiting for its products to be approved and become commercially successful.
Pharmavene has a deficit of $ 22.5 million.

   Pharmavene is headed by James D. Isbister, 58, the chairman, president and
chief executive. Isbister, among his other jobs, was a top official of the
National Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.

   Bottom line: With biotech stocks, it's a good idea to wait for the products
to arrive.  *


GRAPHIC: Chart

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1995


                              59 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   November 12, 1995, Sunday, 2 STAR Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; People in business; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: People in business

BYLINE: Staff

BODY:

   Danny L. Stephens has been appointed vice president of
drilling and production of Howell Petroleum Corp. . .  Mark L.
Bosanko has been named vice president of oil field chemicals
for Nalco/Exxon Energy Chemicals. . .  David E. Fanta has been
promoted to senior vice president of operations for
Allwaste. . .  Robert Ralston has been appointed director of
the Cancer Gene Therapy Program at Gene Medicine.

   Frederick W. ""Rick'' Geissinger has been elected chairman and
chief executive officer of American General
Finance. . .  Robert L. Moody, board chairman of American
National Insurance Co., will become president of the company
following the retirement of Orson C.Clay on Dec. 31.

   Roy G. Rhodes will join Noble Drilling Services as vice
president of organizational development, effective Jan.
2. ..  Brian Nowak has joined the First National Bank of
Rosenberg as vice president of lending . . .  Charles M. Balch,
medical director and executive vice president for health
affairs for M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, has been elected to
the board of directors of Serv-Tech.

   Kanaly Trust Co. has named Eugene A. Schwinger president and
chief operating officer and Drew Kanaly as chief executive
officer.

   The Houston Business Council announced the election of Steve
Zander, Brown & Root senior vice president and Americas
Regional manager, and Thomas Matthews, a vice president of
Texaco and the chief executive officer of Texaco Refining and
Marketing, to the board.  The Houston Minority Business Council
announced the appointment of Al Spinks, owner of Raynor
Computer Services, to the board of directors.

   Ken Lucas, chairman, and Watson Lott, president, have founded
Precision Search Group, an information technology executive
search firm.

   Robert L. Golding has been named a partner in the Houston
office of the executive search firm of Lamalie Amrop
International.


GRAPHIC: Mugs: 1. Danny L. Stephens; 2. Mark L. Bosanko; 3. David E. Fanta

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1995


                              60 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   November 11, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 14C

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Owings Mills research firm sold; Connecticut company buys
Migliara-Kaplan in $ 15.2 million deal

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   NFO Research, a Connecticut-based market research company, has agreed to
acquire Migliara-Kaplan & Associates, an Owings Mills-based health care and
pharmaceutical research firm.

   The deal is valued at an estimated $ 15.2 million.

   "We really like this company and what they do," said Patrick Healy, executive
vice president and chief executive officer for NFO.

   "The industry they serve we see as having very high growth potential in the
U.S., and they are a great company. They have 16 of the top 20 pharmaceutical
companies as clients."

   The acquisition is NFO's fourth since it went public in 1993. Its clients
come from a diverse group of industries, including telecommunications, financial
services and packaged goods. Its biggest client is household goods giant Proctor
& Gamble.

   Migliara-Kaplan, also known as MK, counts among its clients pharmaceutical
giants Merck & Co. and Park-Davis, and bio-tech concerns Amgen and Genetic
Therapy, based in Rockville.

   The company has focused on conducting research among such clients for its
biggest customers -- physicians.

   Mr. Migliara said, though, that increasingly his clients are interested in
market data from "a triad -- the primary physician, the insurer and the
patient."

   Mr. Healy and Mr. Migliara said they believe that the merger came at an
opportune time for both companies because of this shift in the pharmaceutical
industry.

   "The entire health industry is becoming much more competitive," said Mr.
Healy. "Companies in the health care field are becoming much more sophisticated
marketers. Their focus is increasingly becoming customer driven, rather than
strictly physician driven."

   NFO hopes to capitalize on that shift through its merger, slated to close
Jan. 3, 1996, with MK by touting the huge pool of people it has on hand for its
marketing surveys.

   NFO, based in Greenwich, Conn., has 475,000 pre-recruited households, or
about 1.2 million people, it can survey about impressions of new and existing
products and services.

   That pool of people, or "panel," includes a group that suffers from chronic
illnesses, such as hay fever, angina and asthma.

   "MK has the access to the pharmacy companies, and we have this huge panel we
can survey," said Mr. Healy.

   Joseph Migliara, president of Migliara-Kaplan, said the merger would not
result in any staff cutbacks at his 15-year-old firm, which employs 90 people.

   "This is not a consolidation for efficiency," said Mr. Migliara.

   "It's a way to build through acquisition," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995


                              61 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                  November 11, 1995, Saturday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Engineered viruses may kill cancer;
Treatment takes a new approach

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   Deep inside Dr. James Speier's tumor, millions of genetically
engineered viruses carry a message of death to malignant
cells.

   Speier is one of seven patients who has undergone a
revolutionary gene therapy for lung cancer being pioneered at
the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.

   ""I came here because I had run out of conventional therapy,''
said Speier, a pediatrician in Corsicana.

   Dr. Jack Roth, chief of thoracic surgery at Anderson, directs
the innovative gene therapy program, which differs from many
gene therapies for cancer in two major ways:

   It injects the gene directly into a tumor.

   It seeks to change the tumor's molecular structure in a way
that will cause its cells to die.

   The premise is simple.  These patients have an abnormal gene
called p53.  When the normal gene is present, it works as an
""off'' switch that suppresses the growth of tumor cells.  When
the gene is abnormal, the off switch is not thrown.

   But in the test tube and in laboratory animals, adding the
normal p53 gene to the cells initiates a cellular ""program''
called apoptosis.  Tumor cells simply begin to die.  Roth hopes
the same will happen with human tumors.

   Today, he will present his preliminary results on the
treatment at a meeting in San Diego.  He can say little other
than that patients have tolerated it well.  He has evidence the
virus is taking the gene into the nucleus of the cancer cells,
where it belongs.  And the gene is causing cell death in a
number of the tumor cells.

   This is not a cure.  Indeed, Roth is uncomfortable with the
word in regards to cancer.  The first patient who received his
gene therapy lived only four months after his treatment.

   ""We won't know how effective this is until we can take it into
larger trials with patients who have less advanced tumors,'' he
said.

   The procedure is similar to other gene therapies in that a
virus is used to carry the normal p53 gene.  When the virus
infects a cell, it changes the cell's genetic characteristics
to include the p53.

   In Roth's laboratory workers combine a retrovirus with the
normal p53 gene.

   Then with the patient under local anesthesia, Roth injects
the virus-gene combination directly into the tumor.  A special
CT scan of the area guides his needle to the exact spot.

   In most other gene therapies for cancer, normal tissue such as
bone marrow is removed from the patient's body, then replaced
after it is genetically altered in the lab.

   Speier is the first patient to receive two such injections,
and he may receive more.  The retrovirus infects only a small
percentage of cells each time it is injected, but CT scans
give a clue that the gene might be having the desired effect.

   He and other patients spend a day in the hospital after the
treatment.

   Roth is recruiting patients for a second study that would use
an adenovirus to carry the gene.  Adenoviruses have the
advantage of infecting a much higher percentage of cells than
do retroviruses.

   Patients in this study will be divided into two groups: one to
get the gene therapy alone and another that will combine gene
therapy with cisplatin, a potent anti-cancer drug.  In studies
of animals, the two seem to have a potent anti-cancer effect
that is greater than when either treatment is used alone, said
Roth.

   A third study will use a strand of genetic material called
antisense to block a cancer gene called K-ras.  This K-ras gene
initiates production of an abnormal protein that causes lung
cells to become malignant.  Roth plans to use a virus to take
antisense genes into the tumor cells, as he has with other
studies.

   Dr. Gary Clayman, an assistant professor at Anderson, is
collaborating with Roth on similar studies using an adenovirus
to take the p53 gene into the cells of cancer of the head and
neck.

   Progress in this disease has been dismal, said Clayman, who is
both a dentist and a physician.  Survival of patients has not
significantly changed in 30 years and the diseases, when they
recur, are painful and debilitating, he said.

   So far, he has begun treatment in two of the 42 patients
slated for his study.

   Clayman wants to determine if patients can tolerate the
treatment and if the gene can be introduced into tumors of the
type he is treating.

   One patient, whose disease has rendered him unable to talk,
gave him a note that said, ""I know this is unlikely to help me
at all.  But if it will help others in the future, then I want
to do it. '' Clayman has kept that note with him.

   In all, Roth has been approved to treat 100 patients in his
gene therapy studies, which possibly makes his the largest
gene therapy program around.  All the work is being done in
combination with Introgen Therapeutics, an Austin-based
concern.

   Introgen Therapeutics, which is funding the patient studies
and manufactures the viruses used, formally announced the
three new studies this week.

   For patients like Speier, the treatment is a chance to
contribute.  ""I've got five kids and they don't want you to
give up,'' he said.  ""I think it's exciting, and the dangers are
small. ''

   A physician's professional career usually spans no more than
40 years, said Speier.  Physicians who practiced from the
mid-1930s until the mid-1970s saw the dawning of the
antibiotic era.  They went from watching children die of
unmanageable infections to curing them with a shot, Speier
said.  ""No wonder they called them miracle drugs. ''

   ""I suspect cancer therapy is now stepping across one of those
thresholds with gene therapy,'' he said.  ""It's nice to be a
part of that.  But I'd rather be on the doing end than the one
being done to. ''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. James Speier (p. 18); Paul S. Howell / Chronicle

TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996


                              62 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    November 10, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: FDA decreases regulations on biotechnology; Industry could save costs,
speed drug development

SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- Just because a drug is made from the new and evolving science
of biotechnology doesn't mean it needs stricter regulating than regular
medicines, the Clinton administration announced yesterday.

   The Food and Drug Administration is eliminating restrictions on biotechnology
that could save the industry hundreds of millions of dollars and speed the
development of biotech drugs.

   The moves are part of an administration package of regulatory reforms.

   "We're wiping away the cobwebs and bringing our partnership with the biotech
industry into the 21st century where it belongs," said Health and Human Services
Secretary Donna Shalala.

   Biotechnology uses living organisms to create everything from slow-ripening
tomatoes to complex gene therapy. When the field took off in the early 1980s,
the FDA regulated biotech drugs more strictly than traditional ones because
doctors knew so little about how these medicines would act inside people.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1995


                              63 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                    November 10, 1995, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part D; Page 12; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: FDA ELIMINATES RESTRICTIONS ON NEW BIOTECHNOLOGY DRUGS

BYLINE: From Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Just because a drug is made from the new and evolving science of
biotechnology doesn't mean it needs stricter regulating than regular medicines,
the Clinton Administration announced Thursday.

   The Food and Drug Administration is eliminating restrictions on biotechnology
that could save the industry hundreds of millions of dollars and speed the
development of biotech drugs. The moves are part of an administration package of
regulatory reforms.

   Biotechnology uses living organisms to create everything from slow-ripening
tomatoes to complex gene therapy. When the field took off in the early 1980s,
the FDA regulated biotech drugs more strictly than traditional ones because
doctors knew so little about how the human body would react to such medicines.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1995


                              64 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;   Page 8;   Column 1;   Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Is Eliminating Special Restrictions on Biotechnology Drugs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

BODY:

   The Food and Drug Administration said today that it was eliminating special
restrictions on drugs made by biotechnology companies in a step that could save
the industry hundreds of millions of dollars and speed drug development.

   "We're wiping away the cobwebs and bringing our partnership with the biotech
industry into the 21st century where it belongs," said the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, Donna E. Shalala, who oversees the F.D.A.

    Biotechnology uses living organisms to create everything from slow-ripening
tomatoes to complex gene therapy. When the field took off in the early 1980's,
the F.D.A. regulated biotech drugs more strictly than traditional ones because
doctors knew so little about how the medicines would act in people.

   That has changed. The F.D.A. has approved 32 biotech drugs and vaccines, and
more than 450 are now being tested. So the agency decided it was time to treat
them the same as their traditional competitors.

   The agency announced these changes:

   *The 1,311 biotech companies in this country will no longer have to get
special licenses to operate manufacturing plants, sparing them thousands of
pages of applications and months awaiting licensing inspections.

   *The F.D.A. will no longer examine each lot of a drug before it is sold,
significantly decreasing the time it takes a drug to get to market.

   *The agency will respond within 30 days to new information submitted after it
stops a clinical trial for safety questions, meaning that testing of new drugs
could be speeded up by several months.

   The 21 application forms that companies must wade through will be
consolidated into one.

   "It is a significant step forward," said Carl Feldbaum, president of the
Biotechnology Industry Organization.

   The plan comes as Congress prepares to overhaul the F.D.A., prompted by
criticisms that the agency takes too long to approve new therapies. But a report
this week by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress,
showed that the agency was taking half as long to approve drugs as it did six
years ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1995


                              65 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   NOVEMBER 8, 1995, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: NEW AIDS THERAPIES ON THE HORIZON

BYLINE: CARL T. HALL, Chronicle Staff Writer

BODY:

    A panel of scientists advised the government yesterday to approve a new
class of AIDS drugs -- even as researchers warned that a true solution to the
AIDS puzzle is still years away.

   A U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel voted to recommend
approval of a Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. drug -- sequanivir, known by the trade name
Invirase -- for AIDS patients with no other options. The move followed a
decision Monday by the same advisory panel backing yet another long-awaited new
AIDS drug, Glaxo Wellcome's 3TC.

   Assuming the full FDA goes along as expected, Invirase would be the first of
a new type of drug, called ''protease inhibitors,'' approved for AIDS patients
since the original AIDS drug, Glaxo's AZT, hit the market.

   This new type of drug works by blocking the ability of the AIDS virus, or
HIV, from replicating. Already, newer versions are being developed that may be
before the FDA as early as next year.

   AIDS groups have been demanding rapid access to the new protease drugs -- and
FDA Commissioner David Kessler appears anxious to comply. He called the new
drugs ''the most active compounds that we have seen'' against HIV.

   Despite the enthusiasm, nobody viewed the latest breakthroughs as anything
resembling a cure.

   Clinical trials suggest both of the new drugs are most effective when used in
combination with Glaxo's AZT, the most widely prescribed anti-viral, which hit
the market eight years ago. The advisory panel recommended approval of Invirase
only when used with existing drugs such as AZT. Its use as a stand-alone therapy
awaits more study.

   Although the beneficial effects don't show up in all patients, and can wear
off quickly, the new drugs offer some hope to patients with few other options,
said Brenda Lein, who tracks AIDS treatments at Project Inform, a San Francisco
information and advocacy group.

   But she said more is needed to round out the AIDS treatment arsenal. The key
missing element, she said, is a long-term defense against infection.

   Apart from the two drugs recommended for approval this week, scores of drug
companies and academic researchers are working on a whole new class of potential
AIDS treatments called ''gene therapies.'' None are close to FDA approval.

   The approach typically involves injecting a new gene or smaller bits of
genetic material into patients. The inserted material may then reproduce or be
incorporated into existing cells. Although the details vary, the basic idea is
to give the body the blueprint needed to build its own new tools for fighting
off disease.

   Cutting-edge research is being done by a large number of small, private
biotech companies and a handful of public ones such as Viagene, a San Diego-area
company recently acquired by Emeryville-based Chiron Inc., and Cell Genesys Inc.
of Foster City.

   Important work is also being done at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center in
Seattle and by university scientists in Michigan and Southern California.

   ''What really keeps a virus under control is immune-system surveillance,''
Lein said. ''That may be the trick to making this a treatable disease.''

   Cell Genesys hopes to perfect so-called universal T-cells, described as a
sort of guided missile system that can be programmed to attack HIV.

   The first clinical trials involved a few sets of identical twins. In each
set, one was HIV-positive and the other HIV-negative. Disease-fighting cells
were removed from the healthy twin, retooled in the laboratory, then injected
into the infected twin.

   The company hopes the same strategy will aid in the fight against cancer.
But it's only been tried in a handful of patients so far.

   ''It's very far away,'' said Cynthia Robbins-Roth, editor of BioVenture View,
a trade publication in San Mateo. ''Nobody has this figured out yet.''

   Part of the problem, she noted, is the surprising ability of the AIDS virus
and other disease-causing microbes to change forms, thwarting whatever medical
science throws at them.

   ''It's turning out that the bugs are a lot smarter than people gave them
credit for,'' she added.

   The scientific hurdles have already proven to be more than many investors can
stomach. Cell Genesys stock, for example, had been as high as 22 in 1993, only
to plummet to a recent low of 33/4. It got a boost recently when the company
signed a development alliance with pharmaceutical giant Hoechst Marion Roussel.
The stock closed yesterday at 7 5/16.

   Chiron Viagene, meanwhile, is midway through a two-year trial involving 15
medical centers and about 200 patients.

   Early-stage trials in almost 90 patients were designed simply to demonstrate
that the therapy was safe enough for further testing. But they did yield ''the
kind of immune responses we wanted,'' said Steven Mento, company president.

   Isis Pharmaceuticals in Carlsbad, is banking on ''antisense'' technology,
sometimes described as a kind of molecular chewing gum that can be ''stuck'' to
a virus in such a way that it can't infect healthy cells.

   The company is furthest along with a potential treatment for CMV retinitis, a
common form of blindness that strikes AIDS patients, but has a separate effort
under way that targets AIDS directly.

   Strictly speaking, the Isis program falls outside the usual definition of ''
gene therapy.'' But Isis President Daniel Kisner said he's still a believer in
the approach.

   CHART:

   GENES THERAPY FOR AIDS

   As a new type of antiviral drug moved toward final approval this week,
several biotech companies and academic research teams are working on even more
advanced ''gene therapy'' approaches to AIDS and the virus that causes the
disease, HIV:

   Company/Institution/project

   FRED HUTCHINSON CANCER CENTER (SEATTLE)

   Genetic manipulation of cells to target and destroy HIV-infected

   cells.

   VIAGENE (SAN DIEGO)

   Direct injection of genetic material into people with HIV in

   hopes of inducing anti-HIV responses.

   UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

   Insertion of gene into certain cells to help protect them from

   HIV infection.

   CELL GENESYS (FOSTER CITY)

   Insertion of bioengineered ''universal T-cells' programmed

   to attack HIV.

   UNIVERSITY OF CALIF. AT SAN DIEGO

   Use of genetic material as a ''molecular scissors'' to cut

   out viral replication system.

   HYBRIDON (WORCESTER, MASS.)

   Genetic material known as ''antisense'' to interfere with

   viral replication.

   ISIS PHARMACEUTICALS (CARLSBAD)

   Antisense for AIDS-related blindness

   Source: Project Inform


GRAPHIC: CHART: SEE END,Cell Genesys scientists Margo Roberts and Mitch Reiner
tracked HIV reproduction in research on experimental gene therapy

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995


                              66 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    November 5, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, Pg. 12F

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: A REGENERATION OF BODY PARTS;
THE IDEA IS TO BUILD ON BODY'S NATURAL HEALING PROCESS

BYLINE: ROBERT S. BOYD; Knight-Ridder

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   A new branch of medicine is springing up to repair or regenerate body parts
for the millions of Americans who lose skin, bones, nerves or other organs to
injury or disease.

   The idea is to use living cells to reconstruct lost or damaged tissues
instead of replacing them with artificial products made of metal, ceramics or
plastic.

   "We want to build on the body's own natural healing processes," said Linda
Cima, a chemical engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is
building a substitute liver out of real veins, arteries and liver cells.

   This grow-your-own-organ approach -- a marriage of biology, chemistry and
physics -- is called "tissue engineering." Along with gene therapy, it is a hot
spot in research on the frontier of health care.

   If successful, tissue engineering "will forever change the medical
landscape," predicted Harold Alexander, head of the Department of Bioengineering
at the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City.

   U.S. surgeons currently perform more than 1 million operations a year to
replace torn or missing cartilage, using artificial metal or plastic prostheses.
The devices often fail or have unpleasant side effects.

   In experiments on animals, tissue engineers take a small piece of cartilage,
say from a rabbit's knee, grow it in the laboratory on a temporary "scaffold" of
a biodegradable material, and re-implant it in the knee.

   "Some day we'll be able to replace a whole joint with nothing but human
tissue," said Gail Naughton, president of Advanced Tissue Sciences Inc. of La
Jolla, Calif.

   By the end of the decade, according to Alexander, natural replacements will
be attempted for knee and hip joints, tendons and ligaments, heart and blood
vessels, livers, pancreases, kidneys, intestines.

   For some people, tissue engineering might also be a matter of life or death.
Robert Langer, a professor of chemical and biomedical engineering at MIT, said
30,000 Americans died for lack of a liver transplant last year. Fewer than 3,000
liver donors were available.

   Even advocates of tissue engineering caution that their science is in its
infancy and success is not guaranteed. Most of the products under development
are still being tested in laboratory dishes or on animals. Only a few human
trials are under way, and the results are mixed.

   "We have to have reasonable expectations," said Peter Eisenberger, a
Princeton University materials scientist and co-chairman of a workshop on tissue
engineering sponsored by the National Institutes of Health here recently.

   Despite the uncertainties, the NIH is spending $ 90 million a year on tissue
engineering. The Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for the
safety of medical devices, also supports this emerging technology.

   "In the next few years, I'm confident we are going to see such products" in
medical practice, said Dr. Kiki Hellman, the FDA's manager of biotechnology
products. "The human trials are very encouraging."

   One reason for the government's enthusiasm is that tissue engineering could
lower the cost of health care by reducing the need for expensive surgery and
hospitalization. By some estimates, organ and tissue loss cost as much as $ 400
billion a year.

   "The loss of an organ or tissue is one of the most frequent, devastating and
costly problems in human health care," said Langer. "Tissue engineering may
create opportunities to provide less costly therapies that can save and improve
lives."

   Researchers at the NIH workshop noted that many of today's methods of organ
reconstruction use synthetic materials originally intended for other purposes.
Examples are sausage casing (now used to make tubes for kidney dialysis),
ladies' girdles (Dacron for heart valves) and mattress stuffing (silicone for
breast implants).

   "We need new materials," said Harry Allcock, a chemistry professor at
Pennsylvania State University. "Existing materials have obvious defects. They
are unstable. They tend to break down. They produce toxic byproducts."

   An example is the controversy over silicone breast implants, which are blamed
for causing disease.

GRAPHIC: Knight-Ridder; A view of growing human skin cells on a biodegradable
web at Advanced Tissue Sciences.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1995


                              67 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         November 5, 1995 Sunday, THIRD

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: LIFE IS MURDER;
ART IMITATES LIFE IN A SHELF FULL OF NEW MYSTERIES

BYLINE: By DIANA PINCKLEY

BODY:

   Issues and policies, prescriptives and platforms are flying thick and fast in
this election season - and not just in newspapers and television. We get a whole
different perspective from mysteries. Sometimes they're funny, sometimes they're
serious. But, as one of my favorite local mystery crafters maintains, books in
the genre may really be the best way to engage a wide readership on the problems
of society and some of their potential solutions.

   Ridley Pearson combines domestic violence, sexual abuse, sophisticated
forensic techniques, and gene therapy to come up with the compelling plot of
"Chain of Evidence" (Hyperion, $22.95). Has a vaguely familiar ring, doesn't it?

   In his ninth work, Pearson introduces Hartford police lieutenant Joe (Dart)
Dartelli as he investigates the death of a man who has launched himself out a
window. All signs point to suicide - just as they did three years ago when Dart
ignored the one piece of evidence that could point to murder, with his mentor,
the brilliant forensic scientist Walter Zeller, as perpetrator.  Zeller's wife
was killed by a violent rapist, whose death some months subsequent was
classified a suicide. Suddenly, men who have abused their wives or the little
girl next door or the innocent kid linked to the Internet seem to be offing
themselves with amazing regularity.

   Pearson puts together fascinating forensic science, artful computer hacking,
ruthless private security companies, and overbearing drug empires for an
exciting, troubling look at the definitions and limitations of justice. No
wonder Jamie Lee Curtis is turning some of his previous works into movies!

   Those drug companies show up on the villain side again in what's got to be
the best-titled mystery of the year, George C. Chesbro's "Bleeding in the Eye of
a Brainstorm" (Simon & Schuster, $21). Many of you may have already met
Chesbro's detective, Dr. Robert Frederickson, better known as Mongo - a dwarf,
former circus performer, martial arts expert, and crime-solver now starring in
his 13th book.

   The issues on Mongo's mind are mental illness, homelessness, drug development
and the CIA. Mama Spit, a homeless schizophrenic who spews saliva and curses
from her filthy blankets not far from Mongo's brownstone on West 56th Street in
New York, turns up on his doorstep just before Thanksgiving.  Except she is no
longer Mama Spit. She has been miraculously cured, it seems, transformed into
the perfectly normal Margaret Dutton, willing to work hard for her room and
board. Normal, aside from one little thing. When Mongo treats her to
Thanksgiving dinner at a Thai restaurant, she can taste all the 19 or 20
ingredients in each complex dish. Her sense of smell is equally phenomenal.

   Mongo finds that she's taking a mysterious yellow and black capsule from a
supply flung at her by a fleeing man just before he was murdered. Concerned,
Mongo confiscates them. Not only does she revert to her Mama Spit ways, she
almost bleeds to death. Then, by accident, he discovers a man who has come off
the street to play the most brilliant professional chess in New York - and who
takes a yellow and black capsule. Meanwhile, the city is in the grip of a
mysterious murderer who kills by stabbing people at corners with an ice pick.

   A dozen inhabitants of a mysterious secret mental institution have fled the
maraudings of the murderer, who began as one of their own. Those who run may
have discovered a cure for schizophrenia and other mental illnesses, but they
don't seem to care. They only want to exploit the heightened sensibilities that
are a side effect of the drug.

   Mongo is plunged into a race against time to get more of the medicine, even
as he has to elude the international terrorists who have been hired to wipe out
any trace that the study ever happened.

   Chesbro writes with his customary combination of wit and charm, in a book
that's one of the year's best.

   The plague of joblessness, the racism in British society and a confusion of
murderers are on Chief Inspector Wexford's mind in Ruth Rendell's "Simisola"
(Crown, $23). Dr. Akande has just assured Wexford that his fears of dire disease
are unfounded when Akande's daughter disappears. The young black woman was last
seen at the local unemployment office which, as it happens, is where Wexford's
son-in-law has been spending a considerable amount of time, to the vocal dismay
of his daughter.

   As Wexford investigates, he becomes more and more certain that Melanie Akande
is dead. The last person she spoke to is murdered, and a Nigerian woman is
viciously attacked. Is the violence racial? Political? Or unconnected?  Wexford
pokes around to find the evidence of real-world crimes, while he explores his
own perceptions. He's dismayed by what he finds inside his mind and out, in
Rendell's nuanced novel.

   Illegal immigration is the issue and humor is the weapon in George Baxt's "A
Queer Kind of Umbrella" (Simon & Schuster, $21). When gay, black, smart-mouthed
detective Pharoah Love is on the loose, bad guys and the fashion police both
should shake in their trendy shoes.

   Undercover as Archie Lang, Pharoah is on a ship smuggling Chinese into the
United States. He's become good buddies with Michael Lee, the nephew of powerful
Chinatown crime boss Kao Lee, and the man who's running the boat with 300 aliens
as his cargo. But Cylla Mouramis (read Christina Onassis), who owns the
freighter, is unpaid and annoyed. So she calls off the smaller boats meeting it.
Michael runs the ship aground, aliens die or are captured, and Pharoah swims to
shore, drips dry, and demands a pistachio milkshake. It goes from there, and if
you're into hip and smart, you'll go right along with it.  The plot's pretty
predictable, but Pharoah's never dull.

GRAPHIC: A QUEER KIND OF UMBRELLA SIMISOLA 2 PHOTOS

COLUMN: GET A CLUE!

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1995


                              68 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         November 5, 1995 Sunday, THIRD

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: FIRST COMMERCE ADDS TO BOARD

BYLINE: Compiled by Keywanna Pierce

BODY:

   Mary Ellen Chavanne has been elected to the board of directors of First
Commerce Corp. Chavanne, a Houston native, has ties to Louisiana's financial
community, having served 10 years on the board of Lakeside National Bank in Lake
Charles. Lakeside recently was acquired by First Commerce, which is the parent
of First National Bank of Commerce in New Orleans.

   Academia

   Peter Gerone, director of the Tulane University Regional Primate Research
Center, has been appointed acting director of the Center for Gene Therapy and
Human Genetics at Tulane University Medical Center. He also is an adjunct
professor of microbiology and immunology at Tulane's School of Medicine and an
adjunct professor of tropical medicine at Tulane's School of Public Health and
Tropical Medicine.


   Accounting

   Lloyd Tate, managing partner of Deloitte & Touche, has been named chairman of
the board of Inroads/New Orleans Inc. The group develops business professionals.
Tate has been a member of Inroads/New Orleans for five years and most recently
served as treasurer.

   sub.Environmental services

   S.Q.G. Management Corp. of Slidell has named Mike Keen operations manager.
Keen formerly was with Smith Environmental and replaces Bruce Hoffman, who was
promoted to marketing manager. Also, Robert Gibney, a former civil engineer with
the Department of Veterans Affairs, has been named senior project manger. Nora
Alt has been named traffic manger and Lisa Craft, formerly a chemist with
Superior Manufacturing, has been named technical director.

   Health care

   Obstetrician and gynecologist Dr. Cathy Swain has joined Methodist OB/Gyn
Clinic. A native of Indianapolis, Swain has practiced in the New Orleans area
since 1994.

   Legal

   Susan Whittington Leidner has joined the law firm of Deutsch, Kerrigan &
Stiles as a partner. Her practice focuses on general business advice, federal,
state and local taxes, planning and controversies.

   Brian Jakes Sr., of Covington, has been named chairman of the Louisiana
Committee for Support of the Guard and Reserve. Jakes is chief executive officer
of the Southeastern Louisiana Area Health Education Center, affiliated with the
Louisiana State University School of Medicine. The group promotes the National
Guard and armed forces reserves.

   Port and shipping

   Sue Robertson, has been named manger of national accounts for Intermarine
Inc. Before joining the company, Robertson was based in Memphis, Tenn., where
she served as director of marketing for LITCO, an operation of , Waterman
Steamship and Forest Lines.

   Oil and gas

   Louisiana Gas Service Co. has expanded its energy sector marketing team with
these appointments: Thomas Broderick joins the company as manager of energy
services. He formerly was with Peoples Gas in Pennsylvania. Bonita Cureton has
been named director of industrial sales. She is a chartered industrial gas
consultant with the Institute of Gas Technology and comes to the company from
East Ohio Gas. Adrian DuBose is the new director of residential and commercial
sales. She formerly was with Southern California Gas. And Carol Etter has been
named director of market development. She comes to the company from Hagler
Bailly Inc., an international consulting firm.

   Items about personnel moves at your company are welcome and should be
addressed to Business People, c/o Keywanna Pierce, The Times-Picayune, 3800
Howard Ave., New Orleans, La. 70140. Phone: 826-3315. Fax: 826-3369. E-Mail:
tpmoney@communique.net. Items appear as space permits.

GRAPHIC: BRODERICK CHAVANNE CURETON DUBOSE ETTER LEIDNER SWAIN TATE EIGHT PHOTOS

COLUMN: BUSINESS PEOPLE

   People shaping the metro economy

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995


                              69 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                    November 3, 1995, Friday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Viewpoints; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Viewpoints

BYLINE: ROBERT DEUTSCH, CAROL BROWN, JACK PHILLIPS, MICHELLE BURLESON, SANDRA
SKREI, IRENE WOOLEY, WILLIAM W. SPANGLER, SONIA GRANEY

BODY:

   Answer is privatization

   The picture of high school illiteracy presented by Houston
public school teacher Nelson Brown is truly lamentable (""No
wonder they can't read,'' Outlook, Oct. 29).

   He rightly decries the ruse called ""accountability'' now in
vogue in state education circles as a scapegoat.  Assigning
blame to middle school and high school teachers for problem
students bequeathed them from abysmal grade schools reflects
the myopic, politically expedient thinking of the educational
bureaucracy.

   But Brown, after his thorough expository treatise on the
tragic deficiencies in basic reading and comprehension skills,
falls into the very same scapegoating trap which he earlier
decried: He blames the problem on a lack of computers.

   His solution: ""Texas .. . ante up. ''

   For crying out loud, how on Earth did I and the millions of
other prehistoric relics of public education learn reading
before the computer age?

   Sorry, computers and money aren't the answer.  The
public-education system in this country is bloated beyond
repair.  It's fundamental premise - that education is a ""right''
- is the fatal flaw.

   A right is nothing more or less than the sanction a free
person has to act in his own self-interest.  Man, thus, has the
right to pursue an education.  Nowhere in the Constitution does
a ""right to an education''exist.  If it is handed to him as an
entitlement, it is the sad fact of human nature that it will
be devalued.

   Education is a value.  In my day it was perceived as an
attainment, much like kids see owning a car or a pair of
expensive athletic shoes today.  Though this will doubtless be
labeled heretical by the edutocracy, the only way to restore
education's value at this advanced stage of decay is to
abolish compulsory education and replace it by a private
system paid for directly by the consumer to the provider, not
through taxes.

   Any parent who doesn't recognize education's value must be
free not to have his child participate.  Does anyone think
there will be fewer competent high school graduates under such
a system than there are now?

   No, Mr. Brown the answer is not rearranging the Titanic's deck
chairs.  Let the ship sink.  It's taking on water faster than we
can plug the holes.  Compulsory public education has to be
graded ""F.'' There is no other answer except privatization.

   When will we face it?

   Robert Deutsch, Houston

    Men: no say on abortion

   Regarding the Nov. 2 story, ""House votes to outlaw one
abortion procedure'':

   Until a man can get pregnant from having sex, he has no
business voting or even voicing an opinion of what goes on in
a woman's body.

   The Republicans are going to find themselves out again if they
continue to pursue this very personal female issue.  The polls
show the majority of Americans want the choice to decide.

   There will always be abortion -legal or illegal.  The
Bible-thumping, self-righteous Christian Coalition lost the
last presidential election for George Bush.  They are a very
scary bunch.  Their opinions belong in church, not government.

   Carol Brown, Houston

    Juries do the right thing

   Regarding Joseph Nocera's Nov. 2 Outlook article, ""Dow
Chemical the victim in breast-implant suits'':

   As a former plantiff's lawyer, I still readily admit there are
abuses of the system.  There are a great many implant cases
that don't have merit.  However, the O.J. Simpson jury
notwithstanding, most juries do the right thing.

   Nocera rails against the thousands of lawsuits, but gives no
reason for the Reno, Nev., $ 14.2 million jury judgment against
Dow Chemical.  There are several questions to ask.

   Why, if all the scientific evidence is on the side of the
defendant corporations, does jury after jury award damages to
the plantiff?  Why didn't the jury find the plantiff's theory
""far-fetched''?  Are the defendants being out-lawyered?  Are the
plantiffs' experts more believable?  Why did the jury believe
Dow Chemical was culpable?

   Presumably Dow went to trial on that particular case because
it thought it could be won.  They jury heard both sides.  Maybe,
just maybe, the jury was right.

   Jack Phillips, Conroe

   Get Alexander's recipe

   Perhaps Astros owner Drayton McLane and Oilers owner Bud Adams
should set up a meeting with Rockets owner Leslie Alexander,
and copy his recipe for a championship team, sold-out games
and sold-out season tickets.  I'm sure that greed is not an
ingredient.

   Michelle Burleson, Spring

   Support Proposition 11

   As I was waiting to begin a meeting with over 20 wildlife
biologists from across the state and appraisal experts to
begin the process of developing guidelines for Proposition
11's ""conservation exemption,''I read Bob Sablatura's Oct. 29
story on that issue.

   I wish that he had mentioned Proposition 11's companion bill,
H.B. 1358, which mandates that landowners actively
manage their land for wild animals.

   A would-be developer with an agricultural exemption will not
be able to take cows off the property, lock the gate and
maintain the exemption.  The conservation exemption is also
subject to the same five-year tax rollback, so the developer
would owe five years of back taxes at the developed land
rates, should he decide to develop while he is receiving the
tax break.

   Voting ""no'' for Proposition 11 won't fix the widespread abuses
seen with the agricultural exemption.  Voting ""yes'' will
introduce a system of checks and balances for the appraisers
to use, which may even catch on for future ag exemption
determinations.

   Vote for Proposition 11 on Nov. 7, and work to fix the
problems in the agricultural exemptions in the next
legislative session.

   Sandra Skrei is the regional representative of the National
Audubon Society, Austin

   What was the goal?

   Was the goal of the Million Man March atonement, or to make an
entry into The Guiness Book

   Irene Wooley, Crosby

    Coverage disappointing

   I am disappointed with your coverage of the Oct. 30 press
conference here at St. Joseph Hospital detailing the plans for
expansion and improvement of the hospital campus.

   Rather than focusing on the $ 50 million improvements that will
help in our care of fellow Houstonians, reporter Ralph Bivins
chose to emphasize the demolition of two antiquated and costly
buildings that have, unfortunately, outlived their purpose.

   The staff and physicians of St. Joseph Hospital are extremely
proud of our service to the city of Houston and the planned
expansion will help all of the downtown area.

   I find it sad that your coverage of our joyous news was not
reported in a more favorable fashion.

   William W. Spangler is the medical director of emergency
services and chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine
at St. Joseph Hospital.

   Fake vomit today . . .

   To Glyndee Houston, who was offended by the Oct.26 Yo!

   Houston section that included photos and recipes for fake
vomit, etc. (Viewpoints, Oct. 31):

   Get a grip.  My 7-year-old loves The Mini Page, and my
14-year old loves Yo!  Houston.

   If it encourages them to read the newspaper, I'm all for it.

   Fake vomit today - gene therapy tomorrow.

   Rather than focus on the negative, let's give the Chronicle
its due for caring enough to include our youth in its
readership.

   I, for one, am grateful.  Every little bit helps.

   Sonia Graney, Spring

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letters

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1995


                              70 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                  November 1, 1995, Wednesday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Treatment close for prostate cancer

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   Houston researchers are closing in on a gene therapy for one
of the most common malignancies in men - prostate cancer.

   Timothy Thompson, a researcher with Baylor College of
Medicine, said the group, which practices at Methodist
Hospital, is looking at the problem from several different
angles.

   In one treatment under study, researchers introduce a virus
carrying a type of gene usually found in herpes viruses into a
tumor.

   Because the virus is an adenovirus - akin to the kind that
causes colds and respiratory ailments - it infects most of the
cells adjacent to the tumor site.

   But the gene makes the cell a target for an anti-viral drug
called ganciclovir.

   The ganciclovir kills the tumor cells.  Combined with hormone
therapy commonly used in treating prostate cancer, the
treatment could ""do some serious damage to prostate cancers,''
Thompson said.

   That treatment has already been presented to federal
committees that review such treatments and is well on its way
to approval, Thompson said.  This would allow use of the
treatment on humans.

   He hopes in the future to combine the therapy with genes that
carry cytokines - biological chemicals that can stimulate the
body's immune system to attack malignant cells.

   Research on another such treatment is not as advanced, but
holds great promise, Thompson said.

   He hopes to inhibit the growth of prostate tumors with viruses
carrying a class of biological agents that can block the
process of cell division - thus preventing cell growth.

   These chemicals were discovered by Steve Elledge and Wade
Harper of Baylor, Thompson said.

   The prostate is an ideal cancer for such studies in gene
therapy because doctors can inject the viruses directly into
the tumor with comparative ease, Thompson said.

   The success of the treatment can be monitored by measuring the
prostate-specific antigen - a marker for the presence of
prostate cancer.  The PSA goes up when the tumors start to
grow.


TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1995


                              71 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                         Copyright 1995 Star Tribune
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                        November 1, 1995, Metro Edition

SECTION: Variety; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: A FEW GENERATIONS AGO, cystic fibrosis patients were kept from
physical activity as much as possible. Now, sports and other vigorous activities
are considered beneficial and life-prolonging;
 PLAYING for LIFE

BYLINE: Peg Meier; Staff Writer

BODY:

   Greg Stacy concentrated on his daughter playing high school volleyball -
skillfully setting the ball, bumping, blocking, serving, running, leaping - and
gave little thought to the fact that her cystic fibrosis is sometimes described
as a fatal illness.

    Elissa Stacy doesn't dwell on the word "fatal." The Minneapolis 14-year-old
said she expects to live to be an athletic old lady, and her enthusiasm for
volleyball and basketball are helping to make that happen.  Some of Elissa's
friends are other children with cystic fibrosis who exuberantly play sports.

    "A lot of people still have the illusion that these kids are frail and
breakable," said Elissa's mother, Barb Stacy.  "They should see these kids
perform."

    Cystic fibrosis (CF) is still described in encyclopedias and other lay
sources as a fatal illness, in fact the most common fatal genetic disease in the
nation.  Each year about 1,300 babies and children are diagnosed with CF.  They
have a number of medical problems, the most serious of which causes the
respiratory and digestive tracts to produce an abnormally thick, sticky mucus.
This mucus clogs the lungs, which causes breathing difficulty and repeated
infections.

    But doctors don't use the "fatal" word.  "Chronic," they say. Forty years
ago, few children with CF lived past the age of 2. Now the average across the
country is age 30, and Elissa's doctors say the life expectancy for patients
here is 40 years and increasing.

    Dr. Warren Warwick, director of the Cystic Fibrosis Center at the University
of Minnesota and one of Elissa's physicians, said doctors used to believe that
exercise for CF patients caused coughing, which damaged their lungs. Now it's
known, he said, that exercise and coughing combined help to clear the lungs of
the harmful sputum. The more activity, the better.

    "Any kind of exercise is good," Warwick said. He suggests walking, running,
swimming, wrestling ("We've had some champion wrestlers"), swimming ("Some kids
went to the junior Olympics") and weight-lifting. "We've had first-class
football and hockey players.  No sport is ruled out for our patients," he said.

    A visiting professor from a Swedish University, Dr. Hans Kollberg, said that
several Scandinavians with CF are running marathons.  Kollberg said he has been
studying CF for 30 years and each year the life expectancy of CF patients has
been extended by a year.  It's a wonderful medical field to be in, he said.

    Researchers in 1989 discovered the gene that causes CF, and gene therapy is
now being tested on patients.

    But for now it's exercise combined with advances in therapy and medicine
(such as antibiotics, enzymes and mucus-thinners) that are allowing patients to
lead good - as well as longer - lives.

    All that is fine and good for Elissa Stacy, but she plays sports for the
love of it, not the therapy.  ("But I know it helps my lungs.")

   Elissa's diagnosis

    A freshman at Totino Grace High School in Fridley, she said some of her
friends don't know she has the disease, even though she has a mild cough much of
the time and gets more colds than most kids. (A recent "really healthy spell,"
she said, meant she didn't have a cold for two or three weeks.)

    Elissa was only a month old when she developed a persistent cough. Over the
next few months doctors told the Stacys not to worry about it.  But plagued with
several bouts of bronchitis and pneumonia, she was hospitalized at the age of 3
months and diagnosed with CF.

    CF is detected through a "sweat test," a simple test that measures the
amount of salt in perspiration.  Greg Stacy said the family noticed that kissing
Elissa's baby cheek was like tasting a salt block.

    The Stacys had never heard of CF.  As far as they knew there had never been
CF in their families.  (Later they wondered if their parents' siblings who had
died young could have had CF.) For Elissa to have the disease, both her parents
had to be carriers of the CF gene.

    Elissa's biggest problem has been the digestive part of CF.  Despite a
healthy appetite, she had poor weight gain as a little girl.  That's because the
mucus keeps enzymes from the pancreas from reaching the intestines, interfering
with digestion.

    To clear the mucus, the Stacys performed what is called "postural drainage."
This means pounding, pressing and tapping on the chest and the back to loosen
the mucus in the lungs so that the patient can cough it up.  Elissa needed this
procedure done two or three times a day for 30 minutes throughout childhood.

    Now she can do it herself.  By 5:45 each school morning, Elissa puts on an
electrically powered vest (Warwick was one its inventors) and as she watches
"Scooby Doo" on TV, the vest pounds her chest so hard that her voice wobbles.

    A slim 5-feet-7 and 112 pounds, she struggles to keep her weight up by
eating 3,500 to 4,000 calories a day. The more fat and protein the better, so
her mother pushes butter and cream.  To help digestion, she gobbles pancreatic
enzymes - 15 to 20 capsules with every meal and about 10 with a snack.

    All this comes at a cost, of course - so much that the Stacys are especially
grateful for insurance.  They recently picked up a three-month supply of the
pancreatic enzyme that had a price tag of $ 2,157.  Because they have insurance,
they had a $ 7 prescription copay.

   A sporting chance

    Anne Hofmann of Minnetonka can testify about the huge changes in treating
CF.  She had a sister with cystic fibrosis who was "very thin, and not athletic
at all, but no one encouraged her to be athletic.  They used to try to keep
patients real quiet." The sister died in 1972 at age 30, old for a CF patient
then, Hofmann said.  Most were dying by age 10.

    Now Hofmann has a daughter, 14-year-old Melissa, with CF.  Melissa is on her
varsity track and cross-country teams, and went to the state tournament on a
relay team.  When she was cross-country skiing competitively last winter,
Melissa had dramatically increased lung capacity, her mother said.  "Melissa has
always been told she had to have a sport."

    CF is tricky, Anne Hofmann said.  Melissa is almost 15 and doing well.  "But
we know kids who have died at 16 or 17.  That's why we work hard to keep them in
athletics."

    That theme is so common that CF patients are matter-of-fact about
participating in sports despite a difficult disease.  Dale and Colleen Knack of
White Bear Lake have two sons - Brian, 19, and Steve, 14 - with CF.  Brian had a
championship soccer game at a time five years ago when he had pneumonia and an
inflamed IV site. A nurse took out the IV, he played the whole game and she
replaced the IV after the game.  Colleen Knack said, "It makes you feel great
that the boys can have a [medical] problem and still do sports like everybody
else."

    Harry and Marcia Whitman of Oak Grove have identical twin daughters,
14-year-old Kimberly and Kristen, who have CF.  The girls, who participate in
basketball, track and softball, are strong in mind and body, their mother said.

    "It fools people.  When the kids are doing well, it looks like nothing is
wrong with them and people think CF is no big deal.  But they have a tough road.
It's a hard thing to predict."




   Cystic fibrosis


    - What it is: CF is an inherited disease that appears in childhood and is
characterized by chronic lung and digestive difficulties.

    - What causes it: A defective gene. For a child to have the disease, both
parents must carry the CF gene. When two "carriers" have a child, there's a 50
percent chance the child will carry one gene but not have the disease; a 25
percent chance that the child will not have the defective gene, and a 25 percent
chance that the child will have CF.

    - How common is it?: It's one of the most common inherited disorders of
Caucasians - one in about every 2,500 live births. It occurs in one in 17,000
African-American live births.  It's rare among Asians and American Indians.

    - Life expectancy: There is no cure, but treatments, increased activity and
medicines are greatly prolonging life.  Forty years ago, few children with CF
lived past the age of 2.  Twenty years ago most lived to 12 to 15 years.  Now
many CF patients are living into their 40s, and life expectancy is rising
rapidly.

    - What it's not: Not contagious.  Not caused by anything the mother did or
did not do during pregnancy.  Not an impairment of intellectual ability.  Not
new; first reported in a scientific paper in 1936 but earlier medical references
point to what was probably CF.

    - For more information: The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 338-0885.


GRAPHIC: Chart; Photograph

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1995


                              72 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 31, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Candidates' credentials run the gamut

BYLINE: DAVID WHITLEY

BODY:


   Please allow me to introduce myself ...  It's more than just the opening line
of a Rolling Stones song. It could be the start of something very big at the
University of South Florida.

   We'll know for sure if a large van pulls up to the new football field next
spring and starts unloading Nordictracks next to the tackling dummies.

   Turning raw running backs into top-notch cross country skiers may not have
been the way Bear Bryant built a program, but what's he done lately? A new
program needs new ideas. Nobody has more of them than one particular fellow
whose re sume is sitting on USF Athletic Director Paul Griffin's desk.

   It's part of a pile of applicants eager to become the Bulls' first coach.
Many fine candidates have sent in letters hoping to impress the search
committee.

   Then there are a few candidates whose names cannot be divulged. Their
children might catch too much grief if word got out that the old man actually
thinks he's got a shot at the job.

   Living in the land of opportunity gives everyone the right to dream. Sending
in an application to a public institution gives us the right to thumb through
the list and wonder just what these dreamers were thinking when they sat down at
their typewriters:

   Dear Mr. Selden,

   Dear. Mr. Selman,

   Mr. Leroy Selmon,

   Mr. Leeroy Selmon,    It's Mr. Selmon to you  That's how four letters began
to USF's associate athletic director, also known as Lee Roy Selmon. Besides
calling him Mr. Selden, one hopeful cemented his candidacy by enclosing his
college transcript. In an upset, he got a D- in Fundamentals of Composition.

   Oh well, nobody ever accused Vince Lombardi of being a wordsmith. History has
shown that there is no set career track for coaching greatness, no way to
predict where the next coaching Einstein will come from.

   Knute Rockne was a chemistry professor before he picked up a whistle. Sam
Wyche roamed the streets of New York City selling fake Rolexes and game plans
dangling from the inside of his raincoat. Neither has applied for the USF job,
though Wyche may want to keep his options open.

   One guy who has applied is Ernest Givins. The St. Petersburg native is so
eager to leave his current job as a Jacksonville Jaguars wide receiver that he
has interviewed twice for the job. At least that's what he told a Houston
newspaper, which really came as news at USF.

   Givins never had a shot anyway. Among the requirements he failed to meet are
a) at least one USF official must be able to pick you out of a police lineup,
and b) candidates must have some college coaching experience.

   That doesn't bode well for the applicants whose backgrounds included radio
show host, sheriff, assistant high school principal and security guard.

   Then there is Mr. Nordictrack. According to his letter, the defining moment
in his life came recently when he was reading a mystery novel on a plane and one
sentence made a lasting impression:

   "Mac found his work in the Life Code Research Laboratory, where he was a
specialist in genetic therapy, to be rewarding, satisfying and all-absorbing."
   Absorbed in his job  From that, it became all too clear. The 42-year-old
business manager had to become the first football coach of the USF Bulls.

   "There is no doubt it would be all-absorbing for me," he wrote. "I think
about this frequently and have discussed it at length with my wife and children,
all avid football fans."

   When it comes to referrals, it's hard to top the wife and kids. If Hugh
Culverhouse was still in charge of hiring football coaches in Tampa, the guy
would be in. Especially after he explained his fail-safe theories on proper
behavior and diet.

   "Do what's right and don't do what's wrong."

   "Eat and drink what is good for you, and don't eat and drink what's bad for
you."

   And if those Nordictrack workouts fail to produce a Nebraska-like offensive
line, he could always break out the ultimate training weapon.

   Buns of Steel.

   If you've got a better idea, be warned. USF plans to start narrowing down its
coaching list in the next week. So you might want to hurry up and give the
school a call.

   Just don't ask for Leeroy Selden.

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: COLUMN; DAVID WHITLEY

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1995


                              73 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 October 29, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13CN;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Hope in a New Treatment For a Fatal Genetic Flaw

BYLINE: By MATTHEW HAY BROWN

BODY:

   ROGER KARLIN and his wife, Helene, have not seen the movie "Lorenzo's Oil,"
Hollywood's account of the real-life efforts of a Washington, D.C., couple to
find treatment for the rare disease that is ravaging their child. They know the
1992 film well enough to discuss its plot, refer to specific scenes, even quote
characters. But they have been unable to bring themselves to watch it.

   "It's funny," says Dr. Helene Karlin, a psychologist and the mother of three
girls. "We haven't wanted to see it. I don't think we could handle it -- even
though we're living it."

    The Karlins, of New Fairfield, are too preoccupied working to save their
15-month-old daughter from a rare form of leukodystrophy to spare even the brief
emotional investment in a story so similar to their own.

   Lindsay Karlin has Canavan's disease, a hereditary disorder named for Dr.
Ruth Canavan, who identified it in the 1930's, in which the normal functioning
and development of the brain are impaired. Roger Karlin, an internist with
practices in Danbury and New Fairfield, and Helene have devoted their time and
resources to organize and fund research to develop a cure.

   Their efforts have led to new hope for their daughter. A team of gene
therapists at Yale University now is working to develop a treatment to be
attempted on Lindsay and 20-month-old Alyssa Mushin, the daughter of Mark and
Eileen Mushin of Derby. If this attempt, to deliver healthy genes directly to
the brain, is successful, it will revolutionize the treatment not only of
Canavan's, but also of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and other
genetic neurological disorders, the researchers say.

   "This has been the most incredibly life-challenging experience we've ever had
to face," Helene Karlin said. "We're going into it with Faith -- the name we
gave our daughter."

   Lindsay Faith Karlin was born in July 1994. Molly Karlin, 13 and a confessed
worrier, says her new baby sister was so beautiful, she cried.

   It was not until Lindsay was seven weeks old that Helene Karlin began to
notice subtle abnormalities in her development. The baby had not yet begun to
track objects visually; when she tried, her eyes would roll back into her head.

   A trip to the ophthalmologist confirmed Helene's suspicion: Lindsay is
legally blind. He prescribed glasses he said would correct her vision to 20/20
and get her back on the path of normal development.

   "I remember saying to the doctor: 'Tell me that's all it is,' " Helene says.
" 'Tell me I don't have to worry about anything else.'

   "He said, 'Yes, that's all.

   "I didn't believe it. There's nothing I could pinpoint -- call it a mother's
intuition -- but I didn't think it was over."

   With her baby-sized glasses, Lindsay's vision appeared to improve. But she
still was not developing at the pace set by her sisters, Molly and 9-year-old
Samantha. The Karlins' pediatrician referred them to a pediatric neurologist.
After a battery of tests, the neurologist identified the problem.

   Canavan's disease, a form of leukodystrophy, is caused by a genetic mutation
believed to have originated centuries ago among the Ashkenazi Jews of Eastern
Europe. Today, as many as 1 in 33 of Ashkenazi heritage may carry the gene; two
carriers have a 25 percent chance of producing a baby with the disease.

   A few hundred cases of Canavan's have been diagnosed in the United States,
but it is believed there are many more, as yet undiagnosed. The mutation
prevents production of an enzyme, aspartoacylase, needed to metabolize an acid,
N-acetylaspartic acid, or NAA, found in the brain. Scientists believe the
unmetabolized acid destroys myelin, the insulation that allows nerves in the
brain to function properly.

   Children with Canavan's do not have normal motor coordination. They have poor
vision and abnormally high or abnormally low muscle tone. They will not learn to
crawl, to feed themselves, to walk or to talk, but remain as infants, unable to
support themselves.

   Canavan's is degenerative and fatal -- usually within the first decade of
life. There is no cure.

   On hearing the diagnosis, Roger Karlin, who had not heard of the disease in
15 years of practice, burst into tears.

   "We were absolutely devastated," he said. "When they tell you your daughter
isn't going to live past 3 or 4, all you can think of is your baby is going to
die."

   Helene Karlin went into mourning, staying in bed for weeks while her mother
cared for her children. Her husband exhausted the medical literature on the
disease -- a dozen articles on diagnosis, none on treatment -- and hit the
telephone.

   "As a physician, I felt hopeless," he said. "The way I reacted was to call
everyone under the sun who had anything to do with genetics."

   Most of those he called were discouraging. There has been little funding for
research on Canavan's. Some of those with whom Roger Karlin spoke repeated the
old saw: The only thing worse than no hope is false hope. One was more blunt.
"Canavan's?" he asked. "Forget it."

   Finally, Dr. Karlin found hope practically in his backyard. Roscoe Brady,
head of genetic neurological disorders at the National Institutes of Health,
told him of a researcher at Yale studying whether gene therapy could be used to
treat diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.

   Matthew J. During, director of the Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology and
Neurogenetics at the Yale School of Medecine, agreed to meet with Roger Karlin,
who took Lindsay along.

   "I was reluctant at first because of the scope of the problem and the short
time we had to work with," Dr. During recalls. "Starting from scratch, it seemed
a long shot to be able to deliver a therapy in time to help his child."

   Dr. During says seeing Lindsay convinced his team of researchers to try.

   "When they saw her," he says, "everyone in the lab unanimously said they
wanted to work on this."

   Mark Mushin says he and his wife, Eileen, owe everything he has to the
Karlins. The owner of a transmission shop in Milford, he says he struggles with
the question of what he can do to repay them.

   Alyssa Mushin was diagnosed with Canavan's in April. In a repeat of the
Karlins' ordeal, Mark and Eileen Mushin-- she is a middle school science teacher
in Darien -- had sought help after noticing Alyssa seemed to be developing more
slowly than their 4-year-old son Andrew had.

   The Mushins feared Alyssa had a minor mental or physical disability. The
truth was devastating. But within days of the diagnosis, they learned of the
Karlins and Dr. During's work at Yale.

   "I told Roger, 'I don't want to ride on your coattails on this,' " Mark
Mushin said. " 'I want to do what I can.' "

   Research at Yale through Alyssa and Lindsay's first treatment will cost
$200,000. As fund-raisers, the Mushins have matched the Karlins. Through a
series of benefits and private solicitations, the families have raised $113,000.

   "They have been a support," Helene Karlin says of the Mushins, with whom she
and her husband speak several times each week. "You wouldn't want another family
to go through this," she added. "But it had been very lonely for us, and
suddenly we weren't alone."

   From the start of their fund-raising efforts, the Karlins and the Mushins
have been inundated with cards, letters and gifts, from friends and from
strangers.

   "It has been incredible," Eileen Mushin says. "We have a child who can't walk
and talk, who only wants to love and be loved, and she has caused everyone
around her to be their best."

   At Yale, in a lab adorned with photographs of the girls, Dr. During's team
has attempted to pack five years of research into six months. The researchers
have developed a method of delivering healthy genes directly into the brain.
They hope the healthy genes will take over for the faulty genes and order
production of the acid-eating enzyme to stop the deterioration of the myelin.

   The process has proved successful in rats. The researchers now are preparing
to try it on monkeys to determine whether it would be harmful to humans. Without
delays, they hope to treat Alyssa and Lindsay by the end of the year.

   Dr. During cautions that a complete cure is unlikely.

   "The hope is that what we do now will be better than nothing," he says. "The
families know this is pioneering, this is research. It's not an established
therapy. But there is a huge potential."

   If it is successful, Dr. During says, the treatment could be used for
virtually all genetic neurological disorders.

   The Mushins and the Karlins say advances in medical knowledge from the
research so far already have given their daughters' lives meaning. They say Dr.
During has given them the hope that their daughters' deterioration may be slowed
and their lives extended. As they prepare themselves for the treatment, they say
they are cautiously optimistic of at least partial success.

   But a part of each of them is dreaming of a cure.

   "Hopefully," Mark Mushin says, "Alyssa and Lindsay will be able to stand up
one day and say, 'This is what our parents did to save our lives.' "

   "I'd settle for 'Mommy,' "Eileen Mushin says. "A big hug and 'Mommy.' "

    Donations to the Yale University Canavan Project may be sent to Dr. Matthew
During, Canavan Project, Post Office Box 208039, New Haven, Conn.06520-8039.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger and Helene Karlin, top, with Samantha, 9, and 15-month-old
Lindsay. Alyssa Mushin, 20 months old, and her physical therapist, Sandra
Ferreira, who encourages her. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1995


                              74 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 29, 1995, Sunday, METRO EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Technology rebuilding lost tissue

BYLINE: ROBERT S. BOYD; of Knight-Ridder Newspapers

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   A new branch of medicine is springing up to repair or regenerate body parts
for millions of Americans who lose skin, bones, nerves or other organs to injury
or disease.

   The idea is to use living cells to reconstruct lost or damaged tissues
instead of replacing them with artificial products made of metal, ceramics or
plastic.

   "We want to build on the body's own natural healing processes," said Linda
Cima, a chemical engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is
building a substitute liver out of real veins, arteries and liver cells.

   This grow-your-own-organ approach - a marriage of biology, chemistry and
physics - is called "tissue engineering." Along with gene therapy, it is a hot
spot for researchers.

   If successful, tissue engineering "will forever change the medical
landscape," said Harold Alexander, head of the Department of Bioengineering at
the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City.

   For example, surgeons currently perform 1 million operations a year to
replace torn or missing cartilage, using artificial metal or plastic prostheses.
The devices often fail or have unpleasant side effects.

   In experiments on animals, tissue engineers take a small piece of cartilage,
say from a rabbit's knee, grow it in the laboratory on a temporary "scaffold" of
a biodegradable material, and re-implant it in the knee.

   By the end of the decade, natural replacements will be attempted for knee and
hip joints, tendons and ligaments, heart and blood vessels, livers, pancreases,
kidneys and intestines, Alexander said.

   For some people, tissue engineering might also be a matter of life or death.
Robert Langer, a professor of chemical and biomedical engineering at MIT, said
30,000 Americans died for lack of a liver transplant last year.

   Even advocates of tissue engineering caution that their science is in its
infancy and success is not guaranteed.

   But despite the uncertainties, the National Institutes of Health is spending
$ 90 million a year on tissue engineering. The Food and Drug Administration,
which is responsible for the safety of medical devices, also supports this
emerging technology.

   "In the next few years, I'm confident we are going to see such products" in
medical practice, said Kiki Hellman, the FDA's manager of biotechnology
products.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995


                              75 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     October 28, 1995 Saturday, FINAL / ALL
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: TERESA KELLY, ADVENTURER, TEACHER

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEERY; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

DATELINE: GARFIELD HEIGHTS

BODY:

   Teresa Kelly's motto was "Do it all and see it all."

   She watched meteor showers streak from horizon to horizon atop a butte in
Mesa Verde National Park, where she slept under the stars.

   She canoed in the Okefenokee Swamp, where an 11-foot-long alligator attacked
her paddle.

   She survived a 75-mph gale while camping in a tent on the plains of the
Oklahoma Panhandle.

   She walked every major Civil War battlefield between the East Coast and the
Mississippi River.

   Last year, she hiked with her family into the Grand Canyon, rim to river and
back, so fast she still had time left in the day to go shopping. She sailed
among finback whales off Cape Cod and swam with dolphins in the Gulf of Mexico.

   She brought the same "can do" attitude to her job at Prospect Elementary
School in East Cleveland. She designed and taught in a team teaching program.
During summers, she taught English to "at-risk" students at Shaw High School.

   "She was a tireless worker," said Prospect Principal Elvin Jones.

   Mrs. Kelly was a member of the school's intervention assistance team that
identified and arranged remedial services for at-risk students. She was the
faculty adviser for the school newspaper. On weekends, she took students on
enrichment outings to museums and special events.

   Mrs. Kelly arranged for the Lubrizol Corp. to donate used computers to
Prospect. They were upgraded with new hardware and became the core of an
after-school computer club that she led for fourth- and fifth-graders. She often
said that with enough computers, she could get every at-risk child off the
streets of East Cleveland.

   Last spring, Mrs. Kelly was diagnosed with a brain tumor. She chose to
undergo experimental gene therapy. It involved surgery to harvest tumor cells
that would be used to create a vaccine against the glioblastoma cancer.

   Mrs. Kelly died Tuesday at University Hospitals before the vaccine was ready.
She was 46.

   She was born in Youngstown, where she graduated from Cardinal Mooney High
School. She earned master's degrees at Cleveland State University in
multihandicapped education and in learning disabilities education. She also did
graduate work toward a certificate in administration.

   She lived in Garfield Heights.

   Prospect will be closed Monday in her honor, and flags at the school will fly
at half-staff for 30 days.

   Mrs. Kelly is survived by her husband, Michael, and sons, Sean and Brendan.

   A memorial service will be held at 9:30 a.m. Monday at SS. Peter & Paul
Catholic Church, 4750 Turney Rd., Garfield Heights.

   Arrangements are being handled by the Rybicki & Son Funeral Home of Garfield
Heights.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1995

CORRECTION:

   Prospect Elementary School in East Cleveland will not be closed tomorrow as
was reported in yesterday's obituary on Teresa Kelly. Flags at the school will
fly at half-staff for 30 days in her honor. Mrs. Kelly, a teacher at the school,
died Tuesday of cancer.  She was 46.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY: no credit Teresa Kelly

COLUMN: Obituaries

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1995


                              76 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 27, 1995, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. D5

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Therapy for rare disease is tested

BYLINE: Sharon Voas, Post-Gazette Staff Writer

BODY:


   University of Pittsburgh Medical Center researchers have started a gene
therapy experiment that may lead to a cure for a painful and debilitating
ailment called Gaucher's disease.

   If successful, the therapy may result in treatments for more than 15 other
inherited metabolic disorders, including muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis and
sickle cell anemia, Dr. John Barranger, leader of the research team, said at a
news conference Tuesday.

   The first patient in the trial is Irene Marshall, 48, a nurse from New Salem
who began treatment Oct. 18.

   ''I'm real hopeful,'' said Marshall, who volunteered for the experiment.
''I'm excited for myself and all the other patients.

   ''In treatment, you get to know the other patients,'' she said. ''There's a
5-year-old boy I hope this can help. And my children are carriers.''

   Gaucher's disease occurs in one in 1,000 Eastern European Jews and one in
60,000 people in the general population.

   It is caused by a deficiency of an enzyme that breaks down a fatty substance.
Without the enzyme, the fatty substance accumulates in the liver, spleen, bone
marrow and brain. People with the Gaucher's suffer from enlarged spleens and
livers, are exhausted by anemia and bleed easily. Their bones hurt and break
spontaneously.

   The therapy relies on a type of cell called a stem cell, from which all other
blood cells are derived and which has the unique ability to reconstruct the
entire bone marrow. Doctors remove some of these cells from the patient's blood
and expose them to a special kind of virus that infects the cells and inserts
into the cell the gene for producing the needed enzyme.

   The stem cells with the corrective genes are then infused back into the
patient, where they migrate to the bone marrow.

   Pitt researchers will study five patients for a year. The goal of the
clinical trial is to study the gene therapy's safety and efficacy and to
determine whether genetically altered stem cells can thrive alongside the
unaltered stem cells so that enough enzyme is produced to correct the
deficiency.

   Marshall feels no different from the therapy yet.

   When she was a child, she was always exhausted by anemia and had an enlarged
spleen removed when she was 7. As an adult, the accumulation of fat in her bone
marrow caused severe pain and weakened her hips, shins and right knee.

   Three years ago, she started undergoing the first therapy ever developed for
the disease, an enzyme treatment developed in Barranger's labs when he worked at
the National Institutes of Health. That has reduced Marshall's symptoms to mild
and occasional aches and pains. But, with that therapy, she would have to be
injected every two weeks for the rest of her life. And it's expensive.

   The first year of enzyme therapy costs $ 350,000 on average, and treatment in
the following years averages $ 50,000 to $ 70,000 a year. Before enzyme therapy
was available, half of the people with Gaucher's disease became permanently
disabled and had to use wheelchairs.

   If the Pitt gene therapy trial is successful, the experiment will be expanded
to many more patients. Barranger said it would be several years before gene
therapy would be generally available.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995


                              77 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                October 26, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Executive Changes

BODY:


   SCHEIN PHARMACEUTICAL INC., Florham Park, N.J., named Michael D. Casey,
former president and chief operating officer of Genetic Therapy Inc.,
Gaithersburg, Md., a division of Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, to the new position of
executive vice president.

SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP., Madison, N.J., named Richard J. Kogan, president and
chief operating officer, to the additional position of chief executive,
succeeding Robert P. Luciano, who will continue to serve as chairman.

WHITEHALL-ROBINS HEALTHCARE, Madison, N.J., a unit of American Home Products
Corp., named Roger G. Berlin, senior vice president, scientific affairs, to the
new position of senior vice president, scientific affairs-worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1995


                              78 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                         Copyright 1995 Star Tribune
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                        October 26, 1995, Metro Edition

SECTION: News; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Gene linked to breast, ovarian cancer

BYLINE: Gordon Slovut; Staff Writer

BODY:

    Scientists have discovered why women with the defective BRCA1 gene are at
high risk of developing cancer of the breast and ovaries, a leading gene
researcher said Wednesday in Minneapolis.

    A normal BRCA gene suppresses the growth and spread of cancer cells, Dr.
Mary Claire King said.  "But we do not know how it works."

    Four years ago King's team at the University of California, Berkeley,
identified the gene, and a year ago other researchers established its link with
familial breast cancer, which accounts for 5 to 10 percent of breast cancer in
Jewish women whose ancestors came from northern and eastern Europe.

    King, who spoke at a symposium at the annual meeting of the American Society
of Human Genetics at the Minneapolis Convention Center, said the genetic defect
apparently isn't restricted to Jewish women with ancestors in northern and
eastern Europe.

    The link with Jewish women was made as researchers sought an explanation for
a relatively high rate of breast and ovarian cancer among Jewish women in the
United States.

    Researchers have found a link between mutations of the BRCA1 gene and breast
and ovarian cancer in women from Japan and parts of Sweden and Scotland, King
said.

    It doesn't appear to be as common among non-Jewish women from France,
Germany and England, probably because their genes come from a wider population
than European Jews, she said.

    The original research found the BRCA1 gene mutation present in about 50
percent of Jewish women with breast cancer and 80 percent of those with ovarian
cancer.

    Other studies show about 1 percent of all Jewish women in the United States
have the mutation, she said.

    It appears likely that the BRCA1 gene may suppress other cancers, as well.
Researchers are looking into that, she said.

    It is clear now that fathers as well as mothers can pass on the defect, she
said. Some men with prostate cancer have a defective BRCA1 gene.

    King said that research into the BRCA1 mutation could lead to advances in
how to treat some cancers.

    Dr. Savio Woo, director of the Center for Gene Therapy at Baylor University
in Waco, Texas, said his group has had moderate success in treating some cancers
in animals with other types of gene therapy.

    About 1,400 geneticists are at the conference, which will end Saturday.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1995


                              79 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                   October 26, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: FOOD & HEALTH, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Tiny computer chip may restore sight

SOURCE: PAUL RAEBURN; of The Associated Press

BODY:


   Researchers have developed a featherweight computer chip designed to float on
the thin, wet tissue of the retina, where it will send visual signals to the
brain and - its creators hope - restore at least partial sight to the blind.

   The computer, about the size of the date on a penny, will be powered by solar
cells that will generate electricity when struck by an invisible laser beam
coming from a pair of special eyeglasses in which the clear lenses have been
replaced by two tiny TV cameras.

   If that sounds like something possible only on "Star Trek," Dr. Joseph Rizzo,
one of its developers, has a ready answer. He points to the success of the
electronic cochlear implant, which is now enabling many formerly deaf people to
hear.

   "Nearly 10 percent of previously deaf patients who receive a cochlear implant
can hold a conversation over a telephone," said Rizzo, a neurologist and
ophthalmologist at Harvard Medical School.

   The success of the electronic ear gives hope to Rizzo and his colleagues, who
include John Wyatt of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

   The first eye-on-a-chip has just been completed at a cost of $ 500,000, Rizzo
said. But mass production of the chips should bring the cost down to as low as $
50 each, Rizzo said.

   It is still years away from human trials of the computer. The researchers
plan to put the first chip in a rabbit's eye sometime in the next year, Rizzo
said. He described the work at a seminar sponsored by Research to Prevent
Blindness, a New York voluntary organization that supports eye research.

   Dr. Jean Bennett of the Scheie Eye Institute at the University of
Pennsylvania said she was impressed with Rizzo's work."It's fascinating," she
said.

   Bennett is also pursuing a forward-looking treatment for blindness. She is
experimenting to perfect a form of gene therapy that may one day restore vision
to people with a genetic abnormality that causes retinitis pigmentosa.

   That condition affects 50,000 to 100,000 Americans, most of whom begin to
lose their vision as adolescents and eventually go blind.

   The computer chip is only a stop-gap measure until gene therapy can reverse
the underlying genetic defects in some forms of blindness, Rizzo said.

   Bennett said both approaches are important. "Some things will work for some
situations, and others won't," she said. "So it's good to have a bag of tricks."

   Rizzo's chip has two layers: a top layer of solar cells and a bottom layer of
computer circuitry. Protruding from the two layers is a tiny strip carrying
electrodes that send signals directly to the nerves in the retina, which
transmit the signals through the optic nerve to the brain.

   The chip will probably produce only limited vision in a very narrow visual
field, but that could be enough to dramatically improve the lives of patients
who cannot see at all, Rizzo said.

   The idea is that the special glasses would pick up images, using small
versions of the optical detectors used in video cameras. Those images would be
converted into high-tech digital semaphore messages sent by laser beam to the
computer inside the eye.

   The laser would power the computer - by striking the solar cells - and
transmit the visual information from the glasses.

NOTES: HEALTH

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1995


                              80 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                     October 25, 1995 Wednesday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: CONNECTICUT LIVING; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: INSURANCE CITY'S DARK SIDE IS THE SETTING FOR MYSTERY WRITER'S NEWEST
NOVEL;
HARTFORD: SCENE OF THE CRIME

BYLINE: JOCELYN McCLURG; Courant Book Editor

BODY:

   Mystery writer Ridley Pearson arrived in Hartford last spring, hired a cab
driver and asked for a guided tour of the city's worst neighborhoods.

   They drove through Hartford's meanest streets and projects: Bellevue Square,
Stowe Village, Dutch Point, Park Street, sometimes zooming through red lights,
seldom stopping.

   Pearson, who lives in Hailey, Idaho, was scouting locations for his latest
crime novel, "Chain of Evidence" (Hyperion, $22.95), which unfolds in Hartford
and the more affluent enclaves of West Hartford and the Farmington Valley.

   Pearson was back in town recently to promote his new novel, and between book
signings he and the same cab driver, Hector Goritz, returned to the scene of the
(fictional) crimes.

   "He told me to take him places I think are wild and drug-infested and
dangerous," Goritz recalls. "I told him I got no problem with that, I'm not
afraid, 'cuz I've been there. I used to buy drugs in those places."

   "Chain of Evidence" opens with a man taking a flying leap -- was he pushed or
did he dive? -- out of a downtown Hartford hotel. (Pearson modeled the hotel on
the Ramada, but his publisher's lawyers made him rename it the "Granada," and
Pearson's cops call it the "De Nada.")

   Fictional Hartford Police Det. Joe "Dart" Dartelli arrives on the scene and
immediately gets a queasy feeling. This "suicide" bears an eerie resemblance to
an earlier suicide, and Dart suspects that his old police mentor, Walter Zeller,
is somehow involved.

   The Hartford in "Chain of Evidence" is a wild and woolly place.  Dart is
chased down Park Street at night by a Hispanic gang. A wealthy wife-beater
shoots himself to death in his West Hartford home. A central character is gunned
down by an assassin in a city park. The area has been plagued by a serial
rapist-killer. Hartford is a dangerous, segregated place where "whites, a
minority in this city, had to pick their watering holes carefully."

   Pearson, who has written eight previous thrillers, is known for his
cutting-edge technology and forensic detail, and he chose Hartford as the
setting for "Chain of Evidence" because insurance plays an important role in the
plot. Sex offenders, altered insurance policies, computer hacking and a
mysterious gene-therapy research company called Roxin Laboratories, situated "a
few miles south of the town of Avon," are at the heart of the mystery.

   *

   It's a springlike day in October, the kind where the sun brightens even the
seediest neighborhoods.

   "Here's my alley, here's where Zeller's house is," Pearson says as Goritz
squeezes his station-wagon taxi cab down narrow Hamilton Court near Pope Park.

   "Isn't this great for a safe house?  We looked half a day for the right
house," Pearson, 42, explains in his animated way.

   In "Chain of Evidence," Det. Dartelli suspects that Walter Zeller, a former
member of the Hartford Police Department who has left town, is back in the city,
hiding out somewhere, very possibly involved in making murders look like
suicides.  When Pearson first came to Hartford to do research, he looked for a
place Zeller might hide out. Hamilton Court, with its rundown houses, worked.

   "Hector showed me a side of the city I don't think everybody sees," Pearson
says. "That was the part of the city I needed for the book, because this white
cop is trying to hide in rundown areas."

   Pearson, who does site research for all his novels, was on the third draft of
"Chain of Evidence" when he came to Hartford in the spring.  He had originally
set the mystery in a small fictional New England city, but his publisher
insisted that it be a real place.

   "I said OK, then it has to be Hartford, the insurance capital of the world,
because of the insurance angle," Pearson recalls.

   He came knowing what he was looking for: a hotel where the "flier" would take
a leap, a safe house for Zeller, a park where a shootout might occur. And he
needed to get a feel for the place.

   Goritz, the cab driver, would have a strong influence on the Hartford that
Pearson saw. Pearson had planned to rent a car and a driver to take him around,
but after Goritz picked him up at the train station when he arrived in town, he
realized he had found a Hartford expert.

   "It's like scouting for the movies," Pearson says as the cab drives through
the city. "I try to find something visually fun. That's how we found the Charter
Oak Bridge. I needed a place for a meeting that had to be visually cool, under a
bridge. We tried one place, then another, then Hector said, 'I know where.' We
went down there, and it was perfect."

   At one point in the novel, Dartelli and another cop interview a little black
girl in Bellevue Square who may have witnessed a murder. Goritz drove Pearson by
all the North End projects when he came to town, with "the doors locked and the
windows rolled up," according to Pearson.

   Now, as they again drive by these dangerous-looking housing projects, both
Pearson and Goritz keep up a running commentary.

   "This is a heavy drug area here, at Nelson and Main," says Goritz, who lives
in Hartford and has been clean and sober for nearly four years.

   "Let's keep moving, Hector," Pearson says.

   They pass Stowe Village.

   "This is where a guy put a gun to my head," Goritz says, pointing across the
street.

   " 'The Housing Authority of the City of Hartford,' " Pearson reads aloud.
"Would you be proud to put your sign on this building?"

   "The things that go on in these hallways; oh, my God," Goritz says.
"Urinating in hallways, shooting up, smoking crack."

   A city in flux

   The Hartford Pearson portrays is a city of dichotomies. Yuppies drink at
trendy downtown spots (Dartelli meets his old girlfriend at a bar- restaurant
modeled on the Civic Cafe) while gangs rule Park Street.

   The story also crosses over the line into the affluence of West Hartford and
Hartford's West End. The head of Roxin Laboratories in the book lives in a fancy
house down the street from the governor's mansion.

   When Pearson was here in the spring, he hired Goritz for 2 1/2 days, and
their tour of the area included a foray into West Hartford.

   While many of the locations in the book are real -- from Trinity College to
Christ Church Cathedral to Colt Park -- others are made up or are
"amalgamations" of what Pearson saw and his imagination.

   Writer has state links

   Even though Pearson grew up in the Riverside section of Greenwich and
attended the Pomfret School, he doesn't pretend to be an expert on Hartford.

   "You owe it to the locals to come here and do your best to give a visitor's
spin on the local scene," says Pearson, who has curly reddish hair and a wiry
build.

   While he may not have gotten the city down pat in three days -- "I use tons
of poetic license," he freely admits. --Many of his observations ring true.

   "At eleven-thirty at night, the downtown core was virtually deserted; the
insurance-executive set stayed out of the city at night unless there was a
function," he writes.

   Pearson stayed at the Sheraton when he came to do his research. "I was struck
by how nice downtown was, but how deserted it was in the evening. Being a
downtown hotel guest, I was a little bit shocked to go out at night and find
nobody on the streets. It's like somebody rolled the sidewalks up."

   His search for verisimilitude took him to police headquarters at Jennings
Road, where he talked with Hartford cops about local procedure and attitudes.
(Capt. Gary Mazzone of the Vernon police also helped Pearson out.)

   HBO to do three novels

   A former musician and songwriter (he still plays bass with Stephen King in
the literary band the Rock Bottom Remainders), Pearson published his first
novel, "Never Look Back," in 1985. His audience and the critical response have
grown with each subsequent book, and HBO recently bought the rights to the three
Pearson novels about police psychologist Daphne Matthews, which will star Jamie
Lee Curtis.

   No one has yet bought the film rights to "Chain of Evidence" (which Pearson
says worries him a bit), so it remains to be seen whether Hartford will make it
into the movies.

   Pearson, who is fond of his Hartford detective Dartelli -- and who sees him
as an Ivy League William Hurt or Kevin Kline type -- would like to set another
novel here, with the same characters. "I like Dartelli; he has a lot more to
do," says Pearson, who gave his main character some of his own emotional
traumas.  (Pearson is recently divorced; Dartelli has recently gone through a
serious breakup.) "And I like the area. I can see coming back."

   Whether Hartford's city fathers would welcome a "Chain of Evidence" sequel is
another matter.  Hyperion's publicity materials for the book paint the city as a
place where you'd be well-advised to wear a bulletproof vest.

   But Pearson says he never meant to single out Hartford as sin city. It's like
a lot of places in America, he says.

   He sees it as a place of monumental contrasts -- of rich and poor, insurance
executives and gang members, blacks and whites and Hispanics. Three separate
cities -- downtown, Park Street, the North End.

   "They seem to coexist," he reflects, sipping tea in the upscale Civic Cafe.
"But I have a feeling that they coexist because nobody knows about the other
parts."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 1: (color), Sherry Peters / The Hartford Courant; PHOTO 2: (B&W),
Sherry Peters/The Hartford Courant; PHOTO 1: * Hartford cabbie Hector Goritz
shows mystery
writer Ridley Pearson around the city's meanest streets.
PHOTO 2: * Author Ridley Pearson used "a side of the city I don't
think everybody sees" for his latest mystery thriller, set in
Hartford.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1995


                              81 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    OCTOBER 25, 1995 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: NEW AREA OF MEDICINE FOCUSES ON REBUILDING DAMAGED TISSUES LIVING
CELLS ARE USED INSTEAD OF ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTS. A SUBSTITUTE LIVER IS BEING
DEVELOPED.

BYLINE: Robert S. Boyd, INQUIRER WASHINGTON BUREAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A new branch of medicine is springing up to repair or regenerate body parts
for the millions of Americans who lose skin, bones, nerves or other organs to
injury or disease.

   The idea is to use living cells to reconstruct lost or damaged tissues
instead of replacing them with artificial products made of metal, ceramics or
plastic.

   "We want to build on the body's own natural healing processes," said Linda
Cima, a chemical engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is
building a substitute liver out of real veins, arteries and liver cells.

   This grow-your-own-organ approach - a marriage of biology, chemistry and
physics - is called "tissue engineering." Along with gene therapy, it is a hot
spot for researchers on the frontiers of health care.

   If successful, tissue engineering "will forever change the medical
landscape," predicted Harold Alexander, head of the Department of Bioengineering
at the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City.

   For example, U.S. surgeons currently perform more than one million operations
a year to replace torn or missing cartilage, using artificial metal or plastic
prostheses. The devices often fail or have unpleasant side effects.

   In experiments on animals, tissue engineers take a small piece of cartilage,
say from a rabbit's knee, grow it in the laboratory on a temporary "scaffold" of
a biodegradable material, and re-implant it in the knee.

   "Someday we'll be able to replace a whole joint with nothing but human
tissue," said Gail Naughton, president of Advanced Tissue Sciences Inc. of La
Jolla, Calif.

   By the end of the decade, according to Alexander, natural replacements will
be attempted for knee and hip joints, tendons and ligaments, heart and blood
vessels, livers, pancreases, kidneys and intestines.

   For some people, tissue engineering might also be a matter of life or death.
Robert Langer, a professor of chemical and biomedical engineering at MIT, said
30,000 Americans died for lack of a liver transplant last year. Fewer than 3,000
liver donors were available.

   Even advocates of tissue engineering caution that their science is in its
infancy and success is not guaranteed. Most of the products under development
are still being tested in laboratory dishes or on animals. Only a few human
trials are under way, and the results are mixed.

   "We have to have reasonable expectations," said Peter Eisenberger, a
Princeton University materials scientist and co-chairman of a workshop on tissue
engineering sponsored by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) here recently.

   Despite the uncertainties, the NIH is spending $90 million a year on tissue
engineering. The Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for the
safety of medical devices, also supports this emerging technology.

   "In the next few years, I'm confident we are going to see such products" in
medical practice, said Kiki Hellman, the FDA's manager of biotechnology
products. "The human trials are very encouraging."

   One reason for the government's enthusiasm is that tissue engineering could
eventually lower the cost of health care by reducing the need for expensive
surgery and hospitalization. By some estimates, organ and tissue loss cost as
much as $400 billion a year.

   Researchers at the NIH workshop noted that many of today's methods of organ
reconstruction use synthetic materials originally intended for other purposes.
Examples are sausage casing (now used to make tubes for kidney dialysis) and
ladies' girdles (Dacron for heart valves).

   "We need new materials," said Harry Allcock, a chemistry professor at
Pennsylvania State University. "Existing materials have obvious defects. They
are unstable. They tend to break down. They produce toxic byproducts."

   A notorious example is the controversy over silicone breast implants, which
are blamed for causing disease in millions of women.

   Naughton, of Advanced Tissue Sciences, said her firm is growing human skin
cells on a biodegradable web to replace skin lost by burn victims without
leaving ugly scars.

   Patrick Soon-Shiong, a surgeon at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Santa
Monica, Calif., has formed a company, VivoRx Inc., that uses tissue engineering
to help diabetics produce their own insulin, a vital enzyme that regulates the
level of sugar in the blood.

   He takes clusters of insulin-producing cells - called "islets" - from the
pancreas, encapsulates them in a porous membrane and implants them in a diabetic
patient. The membrane keeps the islets from being destroyed by the body's immune
system.

   Two years ago, Soon-Shiong inserted one of these "living organoids," as he
called them, in Steven Lee Craig, an acute diabetic, who was unable to work.

   Craig's body now manufactures much of the insulin he needs, and he is able to
hold a full-time job as a writer in Nashville.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (1)
1. A reporter looks at a mouse with a laboratory-grown human ear on its back.
The ear was developed through "tissue engineering. (Associated Press)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              82 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           October 25, 1995 Wednesday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-9

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Having it both ways on science policy

BYLINE: HENRY I. MILLER, MILLER is Robert Wesson Fellow of Scientific Philosophy
and Public Policy at the Hoover Institution. He also is a professor at Stanford
University's Institute for International Studies and an adviser to the American
Council on Science and Health.

BODY:

   President Clinton touted the importance of technology and called for more
government influence on and funding of research in his recent "pro-technology"
speech.

   But his focus was all wrong.

   His technology czar, Al Gore, would rather regulate technology than stimulate
it, and his science adviser seems to have been selected for his invisibility and
willingness to murmur those four tender words, "Yes, Mr. Vice President." The
president's speech was long on snipes at congressional budget-cutting but short
on policy initiatives.

   As advocates of government intervention and spending to solve every problem,
the president and his men do not understand the nature of the game: The winner
is not the one who spends the most, but who produces the most.

   Therefore, we need to enhance American research productivity.

   At a time of fiscal austerity, this is a goal that is challenging but not, as
they say, rocket science. Here are just a few no-cost strategies the president
could have announced to increase productivity rapidly and unilaterally,
one-upping Congress in the progress: 1) limit government support only to
projects unlikely to be undertaken by the private sector, 2) craft appropriate
incentives for greater private-sector participation in early-stage research, 3)
remove unwarranted regulatory disincentives to research, and 4) enhance the
quality of research by subjecting both intramural and extramural research
proposals at all agencies to a scientific peer review. Several actions would
better target federal funding: [] Redirect funding to basic research from
commercial, product-oriented research to ensure that federal funds are not spent
on projects likely to be assumed by the private sector (for example, most
clinical trials of drugs and vaccines funded by the National Institutes of
Health, and the development of medical diagnostic gadgets supported by the
Department of Commerce's National Institute for Standards and Technology). []
Convene expert scientific and engineering panels to set priorities for federal
funding and to redirect funding to basic research from areas less essential to
basic knowledge or development.

   Require that all federal grants undergo rigorous scientific peer review to
channel support to the proposals that are scientifically the most meritorious.

   These strategies would be an alternative to some of the current mechanisms
that parcel out federal largess based on political considerations (pork). []
Promote interdisciplinary research that stimulates synergy among scientific and
engineering fields.

   Similarly, give preference in graduate and postdoctoral training to
interdisciplinary research to ensure the continuous availability of cutting-edge
researchers. [] Assign a high priority to research on basic systems of
widespread scientific interest and applicability; this would position federal
research investment, appropriately, upstream of private sector investment. []
Redefine the criteria for grants to small businesses (under the Small Business
Innovation Research program), so that funding is for early-stage research that
provides "proof of principle"; ensure that these proposals undergo strict
scientific peer review; and give priority to projects that leverage federal
funds (for example, by building university-industry partnerships). Unwarranted
disincentives and costs associated with government oversight are anti-innovative
and anti-competitive, as well as wasteful of research monies and scientists'
time.

   Corrective actions that could be taken by federal officials: [] Ensure that
federal regulation is consistent with scientific principles, focuses only on
genuine research risks and protects against unwarranted costs and reporting
requirements. [] Convene scientific panels (through the nonpartisan National
Academy of Sciences or National Research Council) to review the scientific basis
for existing regulations that currently discourage research and divert research
funds in such promising fields as human-gene therapy, agricultural biotechnology
and environmental bioremediation. [] Replace outmoded regulatory-design
standards with performance standards: Regulatory agencies should specify the
outcome or standard that must be met, but should not specify a narrow spectrum
of "acceptable" technologies or techniques that may be used to achieve that
standard. Such refinements in science policy are rational, reasonable, can be
accomplished rapidly -- and don't cost anything.

   What could be more alluring to the president?

   As journalist Bob Woodward has observed, nothing appeals more to Bill Clinton
than a "costless" decision, "a chance to have it both ways, to eat ice cream and
still lose weight." The United States needs, but does not now have, an
aggressive science policy that will restore America's research infrastructure
and preserve our position as the world leader in science, technology and
economic growth. Increased federal support of basic research would be a valuable
and wise investment, but that is unlikely in the prevailing climate of
cost-cutting and budget-balancing. Especially in such hard financial times, an
effective science policy requires thoughtful revenue-neutral strategies.

   We're not getting them from Clinton and Gore.

GRAPHIC: 1 DRAWING; PHOTOBY: STEVE LEFKOWITZ

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                              83 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 35;  Column 1;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Crime

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

BODY:

   If gobbling a book in one sitting is any reliable indicator, then A MAIDEN'S
GRAVE (Viking, $22.95) was a screaming hit with this bleary-eyed reader. Three
stone killers, eight little girls in peril, one lovely maiden and an F.B.I.
agent with nerves of steel are the irresistible lures of Jeffery Deaver's new
thriller, which opens with a jolt when three escaped convicts hijack a busload
of deaf schoolgirls and cart them off to an abandoned slaughterhouse in the
middle of a Kansas wheat field.

   Mr. Deaver gets great mileage out of this hellish setting, with its rank
"butcher blocks, one- and three-bay decapitation guillotines, gutting machines,
grinders, huge rendering vats" and lingering smells of death. He also ratchets
up the tension by making one of the kidnappers a rapist with a taste for small
girls. Despite such touches, the narrative does not turn on cheap thrills, but
on the character dynamics between the brilliantly conceived chief villain, an
utterly amoral and unpredictable killer named Lou Handy, and Arthur Potter, the
head of the F.B.I. rescue team, who has to negotiate the life-and-death issues
with Handy while fending off ravenous reporters, the gung-ho local militia and a
spy in the house. For all the melodramatic plot twists, the story is told in a
fundamentally realistic style that intensifies the suspense until you could . .
. well, scream.

    Easy sex, ugly clothes, nutty politics -- the 1970's were some fun. In Wendy
Hornsby's latest mystery, 77TH STREET REQUIEM (Dutton, $21.95), the independent
film maker Maggie MacGowen sums up the era as "society on the verge of a nervous
breakdown" and sets out to capture its ineffable craziness in a television
documentary.

   The focus of Maggie's film is the unsolved 1974 murder of a Los Angeles
police officer, whose body was found around the corner from the hide-out of the
Symbionese Liberation Army. "The S.L.A. is a topic near and dear to me," Maggie
says. "Patty Hearst, the beautiful young woman seduced into terrorism, was, in
my mind, the most romantic radical of them all."

   Several things intrude to keep Maggie from chasing down S.L.A. survivors for
interviews. Someone is sabotaging her film and beating up members of her crew,
maybe the same someone who guns down the assassinated police officer's partner.
Because Maggie lives with a cop who was close to both victims, she also does
some extensive research into their after-hours affairs by conducting painfully
intimate conversations with widows and former girlfriends. All these domestic
entanglements could easily become distractions, but Ms. Hornsby succeeds in
making the lives of these women a sturdy subplot in this dense and politically
provocative case.

   Oh, goody. The gadget man is back with a bag of new toys. In his
techno-thriller CHAIN OF EVIDENCE (Hyperion, $22.95), Ridley Pearson comes up
with all kinds of gizmos that glow in the dark to help detectives on the
Hartford police force hunt down the vigilante killer who is offering sex
offenders compulsory assistance in committing "suicide." In some cops' opinion,
this avenging angel is performing charity work, but the conscientious Joe
Dartelli is determined to catch the creep, even if he turns out to be Joe's old
mentor, a retired forensic scientist named Walter Zeller.

   For someone who can be so lucid about complicated technical subjects like DNA
mapping, Mr. Pearson has his problems writing about life-forms. His hero cop is
cut from old cloth, and Zeller has the consistency of construction paper. But
the prose perks up when the author moves on to digital cameras, night-vision
goggles, customized communications software, fiber-optic video cams, computer
graphics for morphing and the lab protocol for analyzing blood chemistry. One
detective practically levitates in his enthusiasm to explain the ins and outs of
experimental gene therapy for sex offenders. This controversial procedure is
called "chemical castration," and it's the key to the killer's twisted scheme.
You don't have to be a techno-nerd to get wired on this scary stuff.

   The name R. D. Wingfield may not set off the whistles and bells that greet
the mention of P. D. James or Colin Dexter; but like those authors, Mr.
Wingfield writes detective stories that have been made into a British television
series. Fans of "A Touch of Frost," which is shown on the A&E cable network, can
now get their mitts on the original books, which turn out to be even more grim
and gritty than the programs on the telly. Inspector Jack Frost's famous
"affinity for mucky cases" surfaces in HARD FROST (Crime Line/Bantam, paper,
$5.99), the third in this series, when he turns up with his tasteless jokes and
in his familiar state of sartorial squalor (buttons dangling from his shirt,
cigarette ashes on his grubby raincoat) to investigate a series of crimes
against children in the London suburb of Denton. The killing of an 8-year-old
boy proves the most heinous, but there are also several puzzling cases of
possibly related abductions and stabbings. None of this is very pretty, but it's
horribly persuasive.

   Like the characters in the series, on which the author is a collaborator, the
coppers are abrasive types who thrive on internecine tensions. Frost himself
talks like a heavy ("I'm not a very good cop and I'm not a very smart cop, so I
have to cut corners"), but he alone feels sympathy for a mother suspected of
killing her children. The man may not have all his buttons, but he does have a
heart.

   Most private eyes walk on the wild side. Paul Whelan prefers to stroll along
the curb. In KILLER ON ARGYLE STREET (St. Martin's, $21.95), Michael Raleigh's
sweet-tempered P.I. takes off on a poky but colorful tour of uptown Chicago when
he goes looking for a runaway teen-ager named Tony, who is living on the
streets. "A moody boy, got a temper," Tony has gone underground in a
neighborhood of Vietnamese immigrants because he knows who has been killing
members of a car-theft ring.

   For the most part, the gang's crimes are petty, and the criminals involved in
the operation are punks -- just the kind of people who make Whelan's soft heart
melt. "People sometimes imagined crime to be about people with power and money,"
he says. "Most of it was about people like these, most of it was about losers."
Like his hero, Mr. Raleigh has a thing for losers, characterizing them with
compassionate care that spills over into his affectionate studies of bartenders,
waitresses and the owners of a slew of delis, bodegas and restaurants on
Whelan's ethnically mixed turf. (Even John the Hot Dog Man gets a full life
history.) Although this walk-and-talk book is awfully light on action, there's
lots of life on these streets and plenty of curb traffic.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995


                              84 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    October 22, 1995, Sunday, Tampa Edition

SECTION: TAMPA TODAY; Pg. 4B

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA TODAY

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Cancer lab gives sneak preview

BYLINE: SHELBY OPPEL

DATELINE: TAMPA

BODY:


   At the sleek and spacious new Moffitt Research Center, previewed by community

 leaders at a reception Saturday night, directors say the building's design
reflects the joint mission of the physicians and scientists who will work
there.

   The newest addition to the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research
Institute at the University of South Florida, the center "was designed to put
basic scientists and physicians in close contact," said Dr. W. Jack Pledger,
associate director of the Moffitt Center.

   With two floors lined with laboratories and another floor dedicated to
improving new treatments as well as early detection and prevention programs,
the center will be a model site for "translational research," Pledger said.

   New drugs and other treatments like gene therapy, discovered in the labs,
will be enhanced on the second floor before they reach doctors helping  patients
in first-floor exam rooms.

   "Basic lab science will be moving right from the (laboratory) bench to
bedside," Pledger said.

   The more than 100,000-square foot building, a renovated version of the
former USF Eye Institute, triples the amount of research space available to
scientists at the Moffitt Cancer Center and brings together departments
formerly scattered in separate buildings around the campus.

   Directors hope that scientists who need only to dash down the hall or  stairs
to pose a question to a colleague will be more efficient and successful  at
achieving the Moffitt Center's ultimate goal: finding a cure for cancer.

   "Good science occurs when people bump into each other going to the  bathroom,
going to lunch It doesn't happen at formal meetings," said Dr. John
Ruckdeschel, the Moffitt Center's director.

   One example of efforts to encourage such interaction are the laboratories,
designed as open bays that keep scientists working in different areas of  cancer
research within an arm's length of each other, not walled-off in  solitary
cubicles.

   "The reason we wanted it this way was to get people talking to each other
and get ideas spilling over into different areas," said Anne Goff, research
services manager for the new center.

   State funds and monies from the Moffitt Center paid for the renovations to
the research center building, said Karen Clarke, marketing and public  relations
manager.

   The state legislature provided funds to establish the Moffitt Center in
1986.

   The building, at 13131 Magnolia Drive, will be dedicated today in a public
ceremony at 2:30 p.m.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, VICTOR JUNCO; Lab operations research manager
Christine O'Connell leads a tour of the new research center at H. Lee Moffitt
Cancer Center and Reserch Institute.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1995


                              85 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 22, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: TWO GIRLS FLOURISHING AFTER GENE-THERAPY TREATMENT; IMMUNE-SYSTEM
DISORDER USUALLY FATAL, DOCTORS SAY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Two girls who were the first patients in history to undergo gene therapy are
now thriving and living near-normal lives, despite being born with a usually
lethal immune disorder.

   Doctors from the National Institutes of Health said that since the therapy
started in 1990, both girls have developed strong immune systems, including
copies of the genes that were transferred into their bodies to replace genes
they were born without.

   The doctors' report was published Friday in the journal Science.

   The two patients were born with a condition called severe combined
immunodeficiency disease, SCID.

   Houston's famed "bubble boy" had a form of the disease.

   Patients with this disorder lack the immune-system cells required to protect
against infection.

   Such patients often become sick from germs that are controlled routinely in
people with normal immune systems.

   Most die at an early age.

   Doctors determined that the girls' disorder resulted from flawed genes that
failed to produce adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an enzyme essential for the
proper number of disease-fighting white blood cells.

   The girls, then aged 4 and 9, were brought to the National Institutes of
Health, where researchers received permission to use them as subjects in a
pioneering gene therapy program.

   Gene therapy started in September 1990 for one patient and in January 1991
for the other.

   Doctors took white cells, or T-cells, from the blood of the young patients
and cultured the cells until they multiplied to thousands.

   The researchers then mixed the cells with a virus that had been altered to
include the normal ADA gene but was rendered harmless.

   When the virus infected the T-cells, it also transferred the ADA gene into
the blood cells.

   Researchers then injected the altered T-cells into their young patients.

   In the study in Science, the researchers report that both patients have
evidence that the ADA gene has been incorporated into their immune systems.

   One patient now has a normal level of T-cells and leads a near-normal
childhood.

   The second patient was somewhat less responsive, but the report said that she
has a stronger immune system and no longer suffers from chronic sinus
infections.

   But both patients continue to receive doses of artificial ADA enzyme, a
conventional therapy for the disease.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995


                              86 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         October 22, 1995 Sunday, FIRST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS TRY NEW TRICKS IN GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: By ROBERT S. BOYD Knight-Ridder Newspapers

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Frustrated by the failure of gene therapy to cure disease, researchers are
trying new tricks to overcome their biggest current obstacle: getting healthy
genes to the right place in the body so they can do their work.

   They are experimenting with artificial human chromosomes, synthetic
mini-genes, DNA "capsules" and "cassettes" that can slip past the body's natural
defenses and stick around long enough to repair or replace faulty genes.

   Eighty scientists from the federal government, research universities and the
biotechnology industry spent two days here this week discussing the latest
advances in the their promising young science.

   "Heroic efforts are going on," said Dr. Eric Kmiec of Thomas Jefferson
University in Philadelphia. "But it's not an easy problem."

   The stakes are high: Success could lead to treatments for cancer, AIDS,
Alzheimer's and other unsolved afflictions. But no one can say when a
breakthrough might occur.

   "These are diseases for which there are no therapies," said Philip Noguchi,
director of gene therapy programs at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
"These new approaches hold great promise."

   Over the past 20 years, scientists have learned how to cut up, redesign and
reassemble genes in the laboratory. Thousands of genes have been identified; in
scores of them, one or more defects can cause diseases. Almost 600 patients are
taking part in 122 gene therapy trials, testing whether flaws in their DNA can
be corrected.

   But so far, doctors have had little success in using their new knowledge to
make sick people well.

   First, they have to find a way to steer repair genes to the proper cells in
the appropriate organ of the body.

   "Lack of precision in gene delivery is still a fundamental problem for us,"
said Kmiec.

   Next, they have to make sure the delivery system - typically a virus that has
been modified so it won't be infectious - doesn't have toxic side effects or
spontaneously regain its virulence.

   At least one person has become ill as a result of a gene therapy trial, and a
number of experimental animals have died.

   In addition, the body's immune system, which is designed to repel foreign
invaders, including strange genes, must be fooled or evaded.

   Then, once the new gene is inside the body, there must be a way to regulate
its function - a biological on-off switch - so that it doesn't do more harm than
good.

   At the conference sponsored by the Cambridge Healthtech Institute, scientists
described their efforts to solve these problems. For example:

   Researchers are trying to construct artificial human chromosomes from
fragments of real chromosomes, the twig-like chunks of DNA that hold the genes
in the nucleus of each cell.

   A repair gene could be attached to such a chromosome and injected into a vein
or sprayed into air passages. Because it is of human origin, it should be able
to avoid attacks by the body's immune system better than current delivery
vehicles, such as viruses obtained from a mouse or monkey.

   "A human artificial chromosome will be able to accommodate any DNA of
interest," said Jonathon Coren, a researcher at DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Co.
in Glenolden, Pa., who is building one.

   Another new approach uses synthetic mini-genes - compact segments of DNA -
that can be targeted to an organ like the liver without stirring up the immune
system.

   "By packing a lot of DNA in a very small volume, we can achieve gene transfer
for a long period of time to the nucleus of a target cell," said Jose Perales, a
biochemist at Case Western Reserve School of Medicine in Cleveland.

   Another way to deliver genetic material is to package it in a "biocapsule"
made of a permeable membrane that lets useful gene products flow out but keeps
large immune-system molecules from getting in.

   Daniel Omstead, senior vice president of CytoTherapeutics Inc. of Providence,
R.I., said his company has developed such a device. It can be inserted in the
skull or spine to deliver proteins to the nervous system to reduce pain or
possibly to treat diseases like Parkinson's, epilepsy and Alzheimer's.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1995


                              87 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         October 22, 1995 Sunday, FIRST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: HUMAN TISSUES GROWN IN LAB

BYLINE: By ROBERT S. BOYD Knight-Ridder Newspapers

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A new branch of medicine is springing up to repair or regenerate body parts
for the millions of Americans who lose skin, bones, nerves or other organs to
injury or disease.

   The idea is to use living cells to reconstruct lost or damaged tissues
instead of replacing them with artificial products made of metal, ceramics or
plastic.

   "We want to build on the body's own natural healing processes," said Linda
Cima, a chemical engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is
building a substitute liver out of real veins, arteries and liver cells.

   This grow-your-own-organ approach - a marriage of biology, chemistry and
physics - is called "tissue engineering." Along with gene therapy, it is a hot
spot for researchers on the frontiers of health care.

   If successful, tissue engineering "will forever change the medical
landscape," predicted Harold Alexander, head of the Department of Bioengineering
at the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City.

   For example, U.S. surgeons currently perform more than 1 million operations a
year to replace torn or missing cartilage, using artificial metal or plastic
prostheses. The devices often fail or have unpleasant side effects.

   In experiments on animals, tissue engineers take a small piece of cartilage,
say from a rabbit's knee, grow it in the laboratory on a temporary "scaffold" of
a biodegradable material, and re-implant it in the knee.

   "Some day we'll be able to replace a whole joint with nothing but human
tissue," said Gail Naughton, president of Advanced Tissue Sciences Inc. of La
Jolla, Calif.

   By the end of the decade, according to Alexander, natural replacements will
be attempted for knee and hip joints, tendons and ligaments, heart and blood
vessels, livers, pancreases, kidneys and intestines.

   For some people, tissue engineering might also be a matter of life or death.
Robert Langer, a professor of chemical and biomedical engineering at MIT, said
30,000 Americans died for lack of a liver transplant last year.  Fewer than
3,000 liver donors were available.

   Even advocates of tissue engineering caution that their science is in its
infancy and success is not guaranteed. Most of the products under development
are still being tested in laboratory dishes or on animals. Only a few human
trials are under way, and the results are mixed.

   "We have to have reasonable expectations," said Peter Eisenberger, a
Princeton University materials scientist and co-chairman of a workshop on tissue
engineering sponsored by the National Institutes of Health this past week.

   Despite the uncertainties, the NIH is spending $90 million a year on tissue
engineering. The Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for the
safety of medical devices, also supports this emerging technology.

   "In the next few years, I'm confident we are going to see such products" in
medical practice, said Dr. Kiki Hellman, the FDA's manager of biotechnology
products. "The human trials are very encouraging."

   One reason for the government's enthusiasm is that tissue engineering could
eventually lower the cost of health care by reducing the need for expensive
surgery and hospitalization. By some estimates, organ and tissue loss cost as
much as $400 billion a year.

   "The loss of an organ or tissue is one of the most frequent, devastating and
costly problems in human health care," said Langer. "Tissue engineering may
create opportunities to provide less costly therapies that can save and improve
lives."

   Researchers at the NIH workshop noted that many of today's methods of organ
reconstruction use synthetic materials originally intended for other purposes.
Examples are sausage casing (now used to make tubes for kidney dialysis),
ladies' girdles (Dacron for heart valves) and mattress stuffing (silicone for
breast implants).

   "We need new materials," said Harry Allcock, a chemistry professor at
Pennsylvania State University. "Existing materials have obvious defects. They
are unstable. They tend to break down. They produce toxic byproducts."

   A notorious example is the controversy over silicone breast implants, which
are blamed for causing disease in millions of women.

   The workshop heard progress reports on a wide variety of tissue engineering
experiments.

   Naughton, of Advanced Tissue Sciences, said her firm is growing human skin
cells on a biodegradable web to replace skin lost by burn victims without
leaving ugly scars.

   "There is a tremendous need for scarless healing," she said. "When you see a
burned baby in the hospital, you don't want it to grow up looking hideous."

   Naughton's company also is growing cells to heal diabetic ulcers - gaping
sores, usually on the bottom of the foot, that can lead to amputation. An
estimated 600,000 diabetic ulcers occur each year; treatment costs range from
$25,000 to $60,000.

   Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, a surgeon at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Santa
Monica, Calif., has formed a company, VivoRx Inc., that uses tissue engineering
to help diabetics produce their own insulin, a vital enzyme that regulates the
level of sugar in the blood.

   He takes clusters of insulin-producing cells - called "islets" - from the
pancreas, encapsulates them in a porous membrane and implants them in a diabetic
patient. The membrane keeps the islets from being attacked and destroyed by the
body's immune system.

   Two years ago, Soon-Shiong inserted one of these "living organoids," as he
called them, in Steven Lee Craig, an acute diabetic who required four injections
of insulin every day and was unable to work.

   Craig's body now manufactures much of the insulin he needs, and he is able to
hold a full-time job as a writer in Nashville, Tenn.

   "Tissue engineering is not science fiction," Naughton said. "It is reality."

GRAPHIC: Human skin cells grow on a biodegradable web at an Advanced Tissue
Sciences laboratory. [COLOR] KRT PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1995


                              88 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   OCTOBER 21, 1995, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Immunity-Deficient Kids Respond to Gene Therapy
 Advance in treating hereditary disease

BYLINE: David Perlman, Chronicle Science Editor

BODY:

    In the first promising reports on efforts to treat life-threatening
hereditary diseases with gene therapy, doctors at the University of California
at San Francisco and three other medical centers said yesterday that the
technique has begun to create functioning immune systems in seven children born
without them.

   The children were all born without the genes for a crucial enzyme that
normally would enable their white blood cells to fight off infections, a rare
genetic disorder called severe combined immunodeficiency disease, or SCID.

   Before a drug was developed to help such infants survive at least
temporarily, they would have been forced to live out their brief lives inside
plastic isolation chambers to protect them against germs of every kind.

   Five years ago, however, researchers at the National Cancer Institute in
Bethesda, Md., began the first experimental effort to correct a human hereditary
defect by infecting two of the youngsters with a harmless virus that had been
engineered to carry the missing genes into their bodies.

   That effort, using somewhat different gene transfer methods, has since been
tried in youngsters with the same disorder in California, Canada and Italy, and
the scientific reports yesterday on their progress said the children are all
thriving, with every indication that their immune systems are functioning -- at
least partially if not completely.

   Common to all the reports, however, is a certain ambiguity, because it is
still hard to know how much of their improvement is due to the gene therapy that
is giving them new immune systems and how much to the drug they are still
receiving.

   Nonetheless, the researchers said they are hopeful that eventually the drug
doses can be eliminated and the immune systems of the treated children will
function fully -- and they said the results hold promise for use with other
immune system diseases such as AIDS.

   Typical of yesterday's reports is the story of Zachary Riggins of Exeter in
Tulare County, who was born with the defect at UCSF two years ago. Immediately
after his birth, Dr. Diane Wara, a UCSF pediatric immunologist, removed a bit of
blood from Zachary's umbilical cord, and Wara's team flew the blood to the Los
Angeles Children's Hospital.

   There, another team removed from the blood the microscopic stem cells which,
when they mature, normally give rise to all the varied white cells that compose
the human immune system. Then the scientists infected those stem cells with
genetically engineered viruses carrying the genes for the enzyme that Zachary
lacked, and the treated cells were quickly flown back to UCSF and returned to
Zachary's body.

   The enzyme that Zachary's own genes could not create is called adenosine
deaminase, or ADA, and like all the other children in these first critical
experiments, he has been treated regularly since birth with a drug called
PEG-ADA, which replaces the missing enzyme.

   In a report published in this month's issue of the scientific journal Nature
Medicine, Dr. Donald B. Kohn of the University of Southern California, the
immunologist who headed the gene therapy team in Los Angeles, described the
techniques his group used in Zachary's case as well as in two other infants, one
from Southern California and one from Canada.

   As a result of the therapy, Kohn said, all three children have begun to
develop increasing numbers of immune system T-cells that have been functioning
for nearly two years. Their weekly doses of the drug PEG-ADA have been cut in
half, their immune systems have been functioning well, and all three have
remained free of infections, Kohn reported.

   As gene therapy techniques improve, Kohn said, it should be possible to treat
many other hereditary diseases in the same way. And because AIDS destroys the
immune system, Kohn said he is already planning to try restoring the damaged
immune systems of AIDS patients by introducing specialized genes into their bone
marrow and thereby making their new immune system cells immune to infection by
the AIDS virus. Those experiments, he said, will not be ready for at least a
year.

   At UCSF, Dr. Melissa Elder, who also follows Zachary, said the boy's white
blood T-cells containing the ADA gene appear to be multiplying and supplanting
the cells that lack the gene. His drug dosage has been cut in half.

   ''Zachary is healthy and thriving,'' Elder said, ''and we're optimistic about
his future. But we're not yet ready to cut out the drug, so at this point I
would call it a partial success.''

   The first of the gene therapy experiments with SCID babies began five years
ago in Bethesda, Md., when a National Institutes of Health team headed by Dr.
Michael Blaese used genetically engineered viruses to carry the ADA gene
directly into the T-cells of two Ohio girls, now 9 and 14.

   Both children are healthy, their immune systems appear to be functioning
normally, and their doses of the PEG-ADA drug have also been cut by more than
half, Blaese's team reported in yesterday's issue of the journal Science.

   ''There is absolutely no question that it works,'' Blaese said.

   Another promising gene therapy report in yesterday's issue of Science came
from an Italian research group headed by Dr. Claudio Bordignon in Milan, where
two 2-year-old children with the hereditary immune deficiency disease were
treated with genetically engineered viruses carrying the ADA genes into their
bone marrow and their white blood cells.

   In both children, the scientists said, the varied cells of their immune
systems have shown that the transferred genes are functioning well, even while
their doses of the PEG-ADA enzyme have been steadily decreased.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995


                              89 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     October 20, 1995, Friday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Study: First gene therapy a success

BYLINE: By Dolores Kong, Globe Staff

BODY:

    Two Ohio girls who underwent the first attempt at human gene therapy in
1990, to treat a deadly immune deficiency, are now healthy and have stronger
immune systems, according to a study being published today.

   Improvements in the patients, now ages 9 and 14, have been reported earlier
at scientific meetings. But the study in today's issue of the journal Science,
documenting how long the therapy lasts and its potential benefits, is the first
published account of the historic trial.

   Before the therapy, one of the girls could not leave her house for fear of
infection, and the other was constantly sick. Now, Ashanthi DeSilva, 9, from a
Cleveland suburb, and Cynthia Cutshall, 14, from Canton, live nearly normal
lives, going to school and playing outdoors.

   Considering it was the first human gene therapy, "We're absolutely thrilled.
. . . We couldn't have asked for a better outcome," said Dr. R. Michael Blaese,
chief of the clinical gene therapy branch of the National Institutes of Health's
human genome research center, and lead author of the study.

   But, Blaese added, "This is not a definitive treatment for anybody yet."

   Other researchers also welcomed the study, as well as two other new studies
of gene therapy and so-called ADA deficiency, one also in today's Science and
the other in this month's Nature Medicine. However, they cautioned that many
questions have yet to be answered before such therapy can be widely considered.

   Already, about 175 study protocols, or treatment guidelines, have been
approved worldwide for gene therapy for such diseases as arthritis, cancer and
AIDS, according to Dr. W. French Anderson, one of the authors of the NIH study.

   ADA deficiency is considered one of the easiest genetic disorders to try to
treat with gene therapy.

   The biggest question about the NIH study for Dr. David G. Nathan, president
of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, concerns the gene therapy approach used:
Taking T cells, a form of white blood cell, from patients; expanding them in the
test tube; adding a harmless virus to carry the missing gene to make the protein
ADA; and reinfusing the cells into the patient.

   "It's a sort of high-risk procedure," said Nathan, who is taking a slower,
more conservative approach to human gene therapy. There is a danger of the
expanded T cells becoming malignant and growing into leukemia, he said.

   Nathan has been named principal investigator for a five-year NIH grant to
study a different approach that would make the genetic correction in the bone
marrow's stem cells, the undifferentiated cells that grow into blood cells. That
approach would eliminate the danger of malignancy, he said.

   Blaese agreed stem cells would be preferable to T cells, but when the two
Ohio girls underwent the treatment in 1990, researchers knew T cells would work
and were uncertain about stem cells.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995


                              90 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                     October 20, 1995, Friday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: 2 OHIO GIRLS TREATED WITH GENE THERAPY ARE THRIVING 5;
YEARS LATER, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: RICK WEISS; Washington Post

BODY:


   Five years after scientists made medical history by giving two seriously ill
children the immune-system genes they had lacked from birth, the girls are
healthy and thriving, according to the first published summary of the
experimental treatment.

   The long-awaited report describes two unrelated Ohio girls, now ages 9 and
14, who spent their first few years constantly sick with an inherited
immune-system ailment and who today play volleyball, keep pets and go to school
without fear of suddenly dying from a minor infection.

   Scientists said the results offer the best evidence yet of the potential of "
gene therapy," a technique in which doctors give patients healthy genes to
replace the defective ones inherited from their parents or to enhance the action
of genes they already have.

   "I couldn't have wished for a nicer outcome," said R. Michael Blaese of the
National Center for Human Genome Research, a senior author on the landmark paper
that appears in today's issue of the journal Science.

   Enthusiasm was tempered, however, because it remains unclear how much of the
girls' improvement can be attributed to their new genes and how much is due to a
new drug they also have been taking. Moreover, researchers said, the girls were
selected to debut the technique because their extremely rare disease was deemed
relatively easy to cure with the crude genetic technology now available.

   Other diseases that gene therapists would like to treat, including diabetes,
cancer and AIDS, will require far more technical precision than scientists
currently possess.

   The results come at a crucial time in the political and economic evolution of
gene therapy. The approach has long been touted as one of the major potential
spinoffs of the Human Genome Project, a $ 3 billion federal effort to identify
all of the 50,000 to 100,000 genes in the human body.

   Yet of more than 200 patients who have been treated with gene therapy for a
variety of diseases since 1990, none has been cured. That has spurred criticism
that glory-seeking scientists and profit-seeking companies have moved too
quickly into human studies.

   Two major reviews of the federal gene-therapy effort are currently under way,
with reports to be submitted to National Institutes of Health director Harold
Varmus in December. Today's report, together with a similarly promising study by
Italian researchers in the same issue of Science, could help swing public
opinion back in scientists' favor.

   "It's a milestone," said Francis S. Collins, director of the National Center
for Human Genome Research, which oversees the NIH's role in the Human Genome
Project. "I think people will no longer be able to say that gene therapy has
never benefited a patient."

   The two girls featured in the American study were born with an extremely rare
genetic disorder called adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency. The disease occurs
when a child inherits mutated versions of a gene responsible for making a
crucial detoxifying enzyme.

   Without the enzyme, toxins build up in the blood, killing immune-system cells
and leaving the child defenseless against bacteria and viruses. Until recently,
such children typically died in the first few years of life.

   Intermediate string overflow Cannot justify line

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995


                              91 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times



              October 20, 1995, FRIDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Girls in Pioneering Gene Therapy Nearly Normal

BYLINE: BY PAUL RECER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Two girls who were the first patients in history to undergo gene therapy are
thriving and living nearly normal lives, despite being born with a usually
lethal immune disorder.

   Doctors from the National Institutes of Health said that since treatment
began in 1990, both girls have developed strong immune systems, including copies
of the genes that were transferred into their bodies to make up for genes they
lacked.

   The doctors' report is being published today in the journal Science.

   The two patients were born with a condition called severe combined
immunodeficiency disease, or SCID.

   Patients with this disorder lack the immune system cells required to protect
against infection. They often become sick from germs that usually are controlled
routinely. Most die at an early age.

   Doctors determined that the girls' disorder was caused by flawed genes that
failed to produce adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an enzyme essential for the
proper number of disease-fighting white blood cells.

   The girls, then ages 4 and 9, were brought to the NIH, where researchers
received permission to use them as subjects in a pioneering gene therapy
program.

   Doctors took white cells, or T-cells, from the blood of the young patients
and cultured the cells until they multiplied to many thousands. The researchers
mixed the cells with a harmless virus that had been altered to include the
normal ADA gene. When the virus infected the T-cells, it transferred the ADA
gene to the blood cells.

   Researchers injected the altered T-cells into the patients.

   In the study reported in Science, the researchers said both patients have
evidence that the ADA gene has been incorporated into their immune systems. One
patient has a normal level of T-cells and leads a nearly normal childhood. The
second patient was less responsive, but her immune system has strengthened and
she no longer has chronic sinus infections.

   Both patients continue to receive artificial ADA enzyme, a conventional
therapy for the disease.

GRAPHIC: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995


                              92 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                     October 20, 1995, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 18; National Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: STUDY DETAILS SUCCESS OF FIRST GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: From Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Two girls who were the first patients in history to undergo gene therapy are
now thriving and living near-normal lives, despite being born with a usually
lethal immune disorder.

   Doctors from the National Institutes of Health said that since the therapy
started in 1990, both girls have developed strong immune systems, including
copies of the genes that were transferred into their bodies to replace genes
they were born without.

   The doctors' report is being published today in the journal Science.

   The two patients were born with a condition called severe combined
immunodeficiency disease. Houston's famed "bubble boy" had a form of the
disease.

   Patients with this disorder lack the immune system cells required to protect
against infection. Such patients often become sick from germs that are
controlled routinely in people with normal immune systems. Most die at an early
age.

   Doctors determined that the girls' disorder resulted from flawed genes that
failed to produce adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an enzyme essential for the
proper number of disease-fighting white blood cells.

   The girls, then ages 4 and 9, were brought to the NIH, where researchers
received permission to use them as subjects in a pioneering gene therapy
program.

   Gene therapy started in September, 1990, for one patient and in January,
1991, for the other.

   Doctors took white cells, or T-cells, from the blood of the patients and
cultured the cells until they multiplied to many thousands. The researchers then
mixed the cells with a virus that was altered to include the normal ADA gene but
rendered harmless. When the virus infected the T-cells, it also transferred the
ADA gene into them.

   Researchers then injected the altered T-cells into their young patients.

   In the study in Science, the researchers report that both patients have
exhibited evidence that the ADA gene has been incorporated into their immune
systems. One patient now has a normal level of T-cells and leads a near-normal
childhood. The second patient was somewhat less responsive, but the report says
she has a stronger immune system and no longer suffers from chronic sinus
infections.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995


                              93 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                         October 20, 1995 Friday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: NO MORE FEARS OF MINOR INFECTIONS
 Gene therapy proves a success
 2 girls who had poor immune systems are thriving 5 years later

BYLINE: RICK WEISS

SOURCE: Washington Post

BODY:

   Five years after scientists made medical history by giving two seriously ill
children the immune system genes they had lacked from birth, the girls are
healthy and thriving, according to the first published summary of the
experimental treatment.

   The long-awaited report describes two unrelated Ohio girls, now 9 and 14, who
spent their first few years constantly sick with an inherited immune system
ailment and who today play volleyball, keep pets and go to school without fear
of suddenly dying from a minor infection.

   Scientists said the results offered the best evidence yet of the potential of
gene therapy, a technique in which doctors give patients healthy genes to
replace the defective ones inherited from their parents or to enhance the action
of genes they already have.

   "I couldn't have wished for a nicer outcome," said R. Michael Blaese of the
National Center for Human Genome Research, a senior author on the landmark paper
that appears in Friday's issue of the journal Science.

   Enthusiasm was tempered, however, because it remained unclear how much of the
girls' improvement could be attributed to their new genes and how much was
because of a new drug they also had been taking.

   The two girls featured in the study were born with an extremely rare genetic
disorder called adenosine deaminase, or ADA, deficiency. Without that enzyme,
toxins build up in the blood, killing immune system cells and leaving the child
defenseless against bacteria and viruses.

   Ashanthi DeSilva, then a 4-year-old living in North Olmsted, Ohio, became the
world's first federally approved recipient of new genes in September 1990.
Researchers removed some of DeSilva's white blood cells, added the ADA gene to
those cells in laboratory dishes, and then reinfused the altered cells back into
her veins. The treatment was repeated 11 times over a two-year period.

   The second girl, Cindy Cutshall of Canton, started the same regimen in
January 1991. Then, two years ago, doctors stopped the gene treatments to see
whether the girls' new genes would survive.

   The report indicates that both girls have remained healthy and their immune
system scores are mostly normal. Most encouraging, cells bearing the new genes
still are alive but it's still not clear for how long. An even larger question,
however, is whether the new genes can be credited with the girls' improvement.

   For Ashanthi and Cindy, that debate is just a lot of scientific detail. They
are glad to be feeling healthier than ever.

   "I feel totally normal," Cindy said. "I think I'm pretty much fixed with the
gene therapy."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995


                              94 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 October 20, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy's First Success Is Claimed, but Doubts Remain

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

BODY:

   Five years after the first human being received gene therapy to correct an
inherited disease, the results are in. The investigators report, in a paper
published today, that the experiment is a clear success, the first in a field
that has so far failed to live up to expectations.

   But reactions are mixed among scientists, with some applauding the result and
others saying that they are still not convinced that the therapy worked.

    The patients, two young children, suffered from a rare inherited disorder
that left them without functioning immune systems. Because of defective genes,
they lacked a necessary enzyme in their bodies. So the researchers tried to add
normal versions of the genes to the patients' cells.

   All agree that something happened when researchers added the genes. All agree
that the cells took up the genes and started using them. The question scientists
are grappling with is: What amount of evidence proves that the treatment worked?

   The researchers, led by Dr. R. Michael Blaese of the National Cancer
Institute in Bethesda, Md., were caught in a bind because the disease, a severe
immunological deficiency, can be treated with drugs. As physicians, they said,
they could not bring themselves to withdraw the drug treatment from their
patients to prove a scientific point. But the only way to prove conclusively
that the gene therapy worked would have been to do just that: withdraw the
drugs. Instead, the researchers accepted a residual uncertainty in their results
and used more indirect evidence to argue for the success of the experiment.

   Some scientists in the field say that the data, published today in the
journal Science, are convincing, despite this limitation. One of the two girls
who received gene therapy has evidence of the new gene in half of her white
blood cells and should, in theory, be able to thrive without the drug treatment.

   "It looks to me like it's pretty unequivocal," said Dr. Francis S. Collins,
director of the National Center for Human Genome Research in Bethesda.

   But others say that although they are impressed with the data, they are left
with nagging doubts.

   Dr. Malcolm Keith Brenner, director of cell and gene therapy at St. Jude's
Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, said he thought it "very likely" that
one of the patients had benefited from the gene therapy. But he said, "If you
want someone to put their hand on their heart and say, 'This proves it,' the
evidence is not quite sufficient."

   The researchers, however, are adamant.

   "The data are beautiful," said Dr. W. French Anderson, director of gene
therapy at the University of Southern California School of Medicine. "It's a
proof in principle for gene therapy." Only "in our fantasies," Dr. Blaese added,
did the researchers expect such a spectacular result.

   The experiment began on Sept. 14, 1991, when Dr. Blaese and his colleagues
gave 4-year-old Ashanthi De Silva about one billion of her own white blood
cells, after they had been removed from her body and genetically altered. The
child suffered from an extraordinarily rare inherited disorder, ADA deficiency,
which is caused by the absence of a gene for adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an
enzyme that is necessary for the normal development of a type of white blood
cell called T cells, which are essential for the functioning of the immune
system.

   It seemed the perfect testing ground for gene therapy. Just a small amount of
the enzyme could make the difference between an immune system that could fight
off diseases and one that could not. All that was necessary was to add ADA genes
to T cells, one of the most accessible cells in the body.

   The investigators removed T cells from the child's blood, stimulated them to
grow in the laboratory and added normal ADA genes. Then they infused the cells
back into Ashanthi.  Later, they treated 8-year old Cindy Cutschall in the same
way.

   Although the girls are still receiving the drug, PEG-ADA, as treatment, the
investigators say it is absolutely clear that Ashanthi, at least, has benefited
from the gene therapy.

   In their paper, the researchers report that half of Ashanthi's cells carry
the added ADA gene, and her cells are making 25 percent of the normal amount of
the enzyme. Dr. Anderson said that people who make just 10 percent of normal ADA
levels showed no symptoms of immune dysfunction.

   Cindy's response to gene therapy was less clear, the researchers said,
because only about 1 percent of her T cells appear to have functioning ADA
genes. Her levels of ADA have not increased.

   But Ashanthi's response gives the researchers hope, they said. The
investigators have kept her drug dosage constant as she has grown, so she is
taking the equivalent of half as much of the drug now as she did several years
ago.

   Cindy's drug dosage has also been kept constant, and she is also doing well.
Dr. Collins said that the optimistic interpretation of this result was that "you
don't need to correct a high percentage of T cells to correct immune
responsiveness." A less optimistic view, he said, would be to say that something
else is going on and that the gene therapy was not a success in her case.

   But, Dr. Anderson said, both girls had been failing on PEG-ADA therapy when
they had undergone gene therapy. Otherwise, he said, "we wouldn't have started
them on gene therapy."

   Dr. Kenneth Culver, an author of the paper who is a gene therapy researcher
at Oncopharm in Gaithersburg, Md., said that before Ashanthi had gene therapy,
she had been sequestered at home. Her parents did not allow even her older
sister to attend public school for fear that the girl would bring home an
infection that might prove deadly to Ashanthi. Now, Dr. Culver said, "she goes
to public school and lives like a normal kid."

   "We liberated her from isolation," he said.

   Dr. Anderson said Ashanthi's response to gene therapy was so robust that "we
are 99 percent sure that we could stop PEG-ADA and she'd be fine." But he added,
"Our primary response is to her welfare, and it's not worth the risk."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1995


                              95 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     OCTOBER 20, 1995 Friday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: 2 GIRLS WITH IMMUNE DISORDER REPORTED THRIVING AFTER GENE THERAPY
THEIR AILMENT IS USUALLY LETHAL. WITH TREATMENTS SINCE 1990, THEY DEVELOPED
STRONG IMMUNE SYSTEMS.

BYLINE: Paul Recer, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Two girls who were the first patients to undergo gene therapy are now
thriving and living near-normal lives, despite being born with a usually lethal
immune disorder.

   Doctors from the National Institutes of Health said that since the therapy
started in 1990, both girls have developed strong immune systems, including
copies of the genes that were transferred into their bodies to replace genes
they were born without.

   The doctors' report is being published today in the journal Science.

   The two patients were born with a condition called severe combined
immunodeficiency disease, SCID. Houston's famed "bubble boy" had a form of the
disease.

   Patients with this disorder lack the immune system cells required to protect
against infection. Such patients often become sick from germs that are
controlled routinely in people with normal immune systems. Most die at an early
age.

   Doctors determined that the girls' disorder resulted from flawed genes that
failed to produce adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an enzyme essential for the
proper number of disease-fighting white blood cells.

   The girls, then ages 4 and 9, were brought to the NIH, where researchers
received permission to use them as subjects in a pioneering gene therapy
program.

   Gene therapy started in September 1990 for one patient and in January 1991
for the other.

   Doctors took white cells, or T-cells, from the young patients and cultured
the cells until they multiplied to many thousands. The researchers then mixed
the cells with a virus that had been altered to include the normal ADA gene, but
was rendered harmless. When the virus infected the T-cells, it also transferred
the ADA gene into the blood cells.

   Researchers then injected the altered T-cells into their young patients.

   Researchers report that both patients have evidence that the ADA gene has
been incorporated into their immune systems. One patient now has a normal level
of T-cells and leads a near-normal childhood. The second patient was somewhat
less responsive, but the report said she has a stronger immune system and no
longer suffers from chronic sinus infections.

   Both patients, however, continue to receive doses of artificial ADA enzyme, a
conventional therapy for the disease.

   Michael Blaese, lead author of the study and a researcher at the National
Center of Human Genome Research, said it is unknown whether the ADA enzyme
injections are still needed, but he's taking no chances.

   "As a scientist, I would very much like to know," Blaese said in a statement.
"But as their pediatrician, I'm not yet prepared to take the step of completely
stopping their enzyme treatment and possibly putting them at risk."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                              96 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 20, 1995, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy puts 2 in the pink

BYLINE: Rick Weiss, The Washington Post

BODY:


   Five years after scientists made medical history by giving two seriously ill
children the immune-system genes they had lacked from birth, the girls are
healthy and thriving, according to the first published summary of the
experimental treatment.

   The long-awaited report describes two unrelated Ohio girls, now ages 9 and
14, who spent their first few years constantly sick with an inherited
immune-system ailment and who today play volleyball, keep pets and go to school
without fear of suddenly dying from a minor infection.

   Scientists said the results offer the best evidence yet of the potential of
''gene therapy,'' a technique in which doctors give patients healthy genes to
replace the defective ones inherited from their parents or to enhance the action
of genes they already have.

   ''I couldn't have wished for a nicer outcome,'' said R. Michael Blaese of the
National Center for Human Genome Research, a senior author on the landmark paper
that appears in today's issue of the journal Science.

   Enthusiasm was tempered, however, because it remains unclear how much of the
girls' improvement can be attributed to their new genes and how much is due to a
new drug they also have been taking.

   Moreover, researchers said, the girls were selected to debut the technique
because their extremely rare disease was deemed relatively easy to cure with the
crude genetic technology now available.

   The two girls featured in the American study were born with an extremely rare
genetic disorder called adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency. The disease occurs
when a child inherits mutated versions of a gene responsible for making a
crucial detoxifying enzyme. Without the enzyme, toxins build up in the blood,
killing immune-system cells and leaving the child defenseless against bacteria
and viruses. Until recently, such children typically died in the first few years
of life.

   Ashanthi DeSilva, then a 4-year-old living in North Olmsted, Ohio, became the
world's first federally approved recipient of new genes in September 1990.

   The second girl, Cindy Cutshall of Canton, started the same regimen in
January 1991, when she was 9. Then, two years ago, doctors stopped the gene
treatments to see whether the girls' new genes would survive.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995


                              97 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            October 20, 1995 Friday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy trial for colon cancer is stopped for first two patients
here

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   The first two people to be treated with an experimental gene therapy for
colon cancer under study here are no longer receiving the injections because
their tumors kept growing, doctors say. But a conventional treatment,
chemotherapy, apparently has brought about a remission in the man who was the
first to receive the experimental treatment, doctors say. The gene therapy trial
through the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center continues to expand, said the center's
Dr. Robert Sobol.

   Two other patients also have received the genetic treatments designed to
boost the immune system's ability to fight cancer. The primary purpose of the
trial at this stage is to test the therapy's safety, and the injections
apparently have not caused the patients any harm, Sobol said.

   Any remission in the cancer is considered an added benefit. The therapy was
suspended in the test's second patient after her cancer also progressed, Sobol
said.

   She, too, is being treated with chemotherapy. The first patient, Clarence
Klosterman, 69, a retired mechanical engineer from Riverside County, received
three of the genetic transfers, but his tumors continued to grow, Sobol said.

   Klosterman's first injection was in June. About a month ago, Klosterman
underwent chemotherapy treatment that apparently has sent his tumors into
remission, and "now he's playing 18 holes of golf," Sobol said. Klosterman had
qualified for the gene therapy trial because other standard treatments,
including chemotherapy, had failed to eradicate his disease. Sobol described
Klosterman's response to a new regimen of chemotherapy as "dramatic" and
"somewhat bizarre." Sobol said there is no apparent reason to expect that the
gene therapy would have assisted the chemotherapy response. "It's a mystery to
the doctors why the chemotherapy worked so fast, in just three weeks,"
Klosterman said yesterday. The thimble-full of injections of altered cells that
Dr. Ivor Royston and Sobol are testing carry a gene that produces Interleukin-2,
a protein that the doctors hope can stimulate immune system activity.

   The injections also include cells from the patient's own tumor.

   Together, the cells serve as a target for the immune system's cytotoxic
T-cells and natural killer cells. Of the two remaining patients receiving the
injections, one is "stable," and treatment has just begun in a fourth person,
Sobol said. If the gene therapy ever proves beneficial, doctors imagine using it
as a supplement to standard treatments to fight the recurrence of colon cancer.
After initial surgery for colon tumors, new cancers can arise from microscopic
pockets of the original tumor that often linger and migrate to the liver, the
abdomen or to other organs. The doctors plan to analyze patients' blood in
detail to better determine whether the patients' immune systems have been
boosted by the injections. Those tests have not yet been done, Sobol said.
Meanwhile, skin biopsies from the sites where the injections are given show an
increased number of lymphocytes, a type of immune system cell that could provide
some benefit. If there is ever evidence that the therapy attacks a patient's
tumors, doctors can continue to give the treatment, he said. As many as nine
patients can be brought into this initial safety trial, Sobol said.

   They are people seriously ill from colon cancer who qualify for the test
because they can expect little benefit from standard treatments. The injections
are given at Sharp Memorial Hospital in Kearny Mesa, and Immune Response Corp.
works in preparing the cells used in the tests, Sobol said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                              98 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    October 20, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Immune: Gene-therapy patients thriving, study says

SOURCE: An Associated Press Report

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Two girls who were the first patients to undergo gene therapy are living
near-normal lives despite being born with a usually lethal immune disorder.

   Doctors from the National Institutes of Health said both girls have developed
strong immune systems, including copies of the genes transferred into their
bodies to replace genes they were born without. Therapy started in 1990.

   Their report is being published today in the journal Science.

   The two patients were born with a condition called severe combined
immunodeficiency disease, SCID. Houston's famed "bubble boy" had a form of the
disease.

   Patients with this disorder lack the immune system cells required to protect
against infection. They often become sick from germs that are controlled
routinely in people with normal immune systems. Most die early.

   Doctors determined the girls' disorder resulted from flawed genes that failed
to produce adenosine deaminase, or ADA, an enzyme essential for the proper
number of disease-fighting white blood cells.

   Doctors took white cells, or T-cells, from the girls' blood and cultured the
cells until they multiplied to many thousands. They then mixed the cells with a
virus that had been altered to include the normal ADA gene, but was rendered
harmless. When the virus infected the T-cells, it also transferred the ADA gene
into the blood cells.

   Researchers then injected the altered T-cells into the girls.

NOTES: HEALTH

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1995


                              99 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         October 20, 1995 Friday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY SUCCESS TOUTED;
REPORT: 2 GIRLS ARE THRIVING

BYLINE: By RICK WEISS The Washington Post

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Five years after scientists made medical history by giving two seriously ill
children the immune-system genes they had lacked from birth, the girls are
healthy and thriving, according to the first published summary of the
experimental treatment.

   The long-awaited report describes two unrelated Ohio girls, now aged 9 and
14, who spent their first few years constantly sick with an inherited
immune-system ailment and who today play volleyball, keep pets and go to school
without fear of suddenly dying from a minor infection.

   Scientists said the results offer the best evidence yet of the potential of
gene therapy, a technique in which doctors give patients healthy genes to
replace the defective ones inherited from their parents or to enhance the action
of genes they already have.

   "I couldn't have wished for a nicer outcome," said R. Michael Blaese of the
National Center for Human Genome Research, a senior author of the landmark paper
that appears in today's issue of the journal Science.

   Enthusiasm was tempered, however, because it remains unclear how much of the
girls' improvement can be attributed to their new genes and how much is due to a
new drug they also have been taking. Moreover, researchers said, the girls were
selected to debut the technique because their extremely rare disease was deemed
relatively easy to cure with the crude genetic technology now available. Other
diseases that gene therapists would like to treat, including diabetes, cancer
and AIDS, will require far more technical precision than scientists have now.

   The results come at a crucial time in the political and economic evolution of
gene therapy. The approach has long been touted as one of the major potential
spinoffs of the Human Genome Project, a $3 billion federal effort to identify
all of the 50,000 to 100,000 genes in the human body. Yet of more than 200
patients who have been treated with gene therapy for a variety of diseases since
1990, none has been cured. That has spurred criticism that glory-seeking
scientists and profit-seeking companies have moved too quickly into human
studies.

   Two major reviews of the federal gene therapy effort are under way, with
reports to be submitted to National Institutes of Health director Harold Varmus
in December. Today's report, together with a similarly promising study by
Italian researchers in the same issue of Science, could help swing public
opinion back in scientists' favor.

   The two girls featured in the American study were born with an extremely rare
genetic disorder called adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency. The disease occurs
when a child inherits mutated versions of a gene responsible for making a
crucial detoxifying enzyme. Without the enzyme, toxins build up in the blood,
killing immune-system cells and leaving the child defenseless against disease.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1995


                             100 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    October 20, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Report First Success of 'Gene Therapy'; Experimental
Technique Helps Defeat Immune-System Ailment

BYLINE: Rick Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Five years after scientists made medical history by giving two seriously ill
children the immune-system genes they had lacked from birth, the girls are
healthy and thriving, according to the first published summary of the
experimental treatment.

   The long-awaited report describes two unrelated Ohio girls, now ages 9 and
14, who spent their first few years constantly sick with an inherited
immune-system ailment, and who today play volleyball, keep pets and go to school
without fear of their suddenly becoming gravely ill from a minor infection.

   Scientists said the results offer the best evidence yet of the potential of "
gene therapy," a technique in which doctors give patients healthy genes to
replace the defective ones inherited from their parents or to enhance the action
of genes they already have.

   "I couldn't have wished for a nicer outcome," said R. Michael Blaese of the
National Center for Human Genome Research. Blaese is a senior author on the
landmark paper that appears in today's issue of the journal Science.

   Enthusiasm is somewhat tempered, however, because it remains unclear how much
of the girls' improvement can be attributed to their new genes and how much is
due to a new drug they also have been taking. Moreover, researchers said, the
girls were selected to debut the technique because their extremely rare disease
was deemed relatively easy to cure with the crude genetic technology available.
Other diseases that gene therapists would like to treat, including diabetes,
cancer and AIDS, will require far greater technical precision than scientists
currently possess.

   The results come at a crucial time in the political and economic evolution of
gene therapy. The approach has long been touted as one of the major potential
spinoffs of the Human Genome Project, a $ 3 billion federal effort to identify
all of the 50,000 to 100,000 genes in the human body. Yet, among more than 200
patients who have been treated with gene therapy for a variety of diseases since
1990, none has been cured. That has spurred criticism that glory-seeking
scientists and profit-seeking companies have moved too quickly into human
studies.

   Two major reviews of the federal gene therapy effort are currently underway,
with reports to be submitted to National Institutes of Health director Harold
Varmus in December. Today's report, together with a similarly promising study by
Italian researchers summarized in the same issue of Science, could help swing
public opinion back in scientists' favor.

   "It's a milestone," said Francis S. Collins, director of the National Center
for Human Genome Research, which oversees the NIH's role in the Human Genome
Project. "I think people will no longer be able to say that gene therapy has
never benefited a patient."

   The two girls featured in the American study were born with an extremely rare
genetic disorder called adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency. The disease occurs
when a child inherits mutated versions of a gene responsible for making a
crucial detoxifying enzyme. Without the enzyme, toxins build up in the blood,
killing immune-system cells and leaving the child defenseless against bacteria
and viruses. Until recently, such children typically died in the first few years
of life.

   In March 1990, the Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug for
ADA deficiency. Weekly injections of PEG-ADA, made by ENZON, Inc. of Piscataway,
N.J., enable the 45 known patients with the disease to lead essentially normal
lives. The drug costs about $ 2,200 a week, however. And although people on
PEG-ADA are mostly healthy, their immune systems do not score well in laboratory
tests, suggesting that they still may be at a high risk of developing
life-threatening infections. So researchers sought to cure the disease by giving
healthy versions of the ADA gene to those who lacked them.

   Ashanthi DeSilva, then a four-year-old living in North Olmsted, Ohio, became
the first federally approved recipient of new genes in September 1990. In a
procedure led by Blaese, W. French Anderson and Kenneth Culver, all of whom were
then at the NIH, researchers removed some of DeSilva's white blood cells, called
T cells, added the ADA gene to those cells in laboratory dishes, and then
reinfused the altered cells back into her veins. The treatment was repeated 11
times over a two-year period.

   The second girl, Cindy Cutshall of Canton, Ohio, started the same regimen in
January, 1991. Then, two years ago, doctors stopped the gene treatments to see
whether the girls' new genes would survive.

   Today's report, which includes data through last year but which Blaese said
reflects the girls' current status, indicates both girls have remained healthy
and that their immune-system scores are mostly normal. What scientists find most
encouraging is that cells bearing the new genes are still alive.

   "Nobody knew how long these cells lived," said Anderson, now at the
University of Southern California School of Medicine in Los Angeles. "One of the
major concerns was that maybe they only live a few days or weeks, then [patients
would] need an infusion every few weeks for the rest of their lives."

   It's still not clear how long the cells will live. But an even larger
question is whether the new genes can be credited with the girls' improvement.
Almost all of DeSilva's cells that were targeted for therapy now contain the new
genes and are producing ADA at levels that may indeed be high enough to maintain
health. Moreover, her dose of PEG-ADA has been reduced by about half, with no
apparent decline in health. "That's encouraging," said Michael Hershfield, a
professor of medicine at Duke University Medical Center, who is an expert on ADA
and a consultant to ENZON. "But our experience in other children is you can
survive and do well at doses less than they're on, even without gene therapy."

   Hershfield said he views the new report as less than a ringing endorsement of
gene therapy. He notes that less than one percent of Cutshall's targeted cells
accepted their new genes, and those genes are barely working. Yet laboratory
tests suggest her immune system is also doing better than ever.

   Her improvement is a mystery, Blaese said, and until more is known, he is
unwilling to cut off the drug -- the only sure way of telling whether the genes
have provided a cure.

   A new generation of gene replacement strategies may settle the issue of gene
therapy's effectiveness. In the Italian report in today's Science, Claudio
Bordignon of the Instituto Scientifico in Milan describes how he and his
colleagues inserted the ADA gene into bone marrow cells in two ADA-deficient
two-year-olds.

   Bone marrow cells are extremely long-lived cells that give rise to a person's
circulating blood cells throughout life; if key bone marrow cells are repaired,
then all the blood cells they produce will be healthy as well. The Italians
report that the new genes apparently have settled into both children's marrow,
which is making blood cells with low but measureable levels of ADA. But the
children also remain on PEG-ADA.

   For DeSilva and Cutshall, the debate over the real cause of their improvement
is just a lot of scientific detail. They are glad to be feeling healthier than
ever.

   "She doesn't like the shots but, bless her, she knows there's a whole lot
worse out there," said Van DeSilva, Ashanthi's mother. "She rides her bike and
listens to Michael Jackson and takes care of her bunny," named Gin Gin.

   Susan Cutshall, Cindy's mother, said her daughter goes to school while
everyone else is out with the flu. "Sometimes she complains, 'How come I'm never
home sick?' and I say, 'Don't start in!' "

   "I feel totally normal," Cindy Cutshall said. "I think I'm pretty much fixed
with the gene therapy."


GRAPHIC: Illustration, john anderson, GENE REPLACEMENT TEST CASE Researchers
used gene therapy to treat children with a rare disease called adenosine
deaminase (ADA) deficiency, in which cells of the immune system lack an enzyme
needed to detoxify a chemical, deoxyadenosine, normally produced in the body.
The disease disables the immune system.  1.  Doctors removed blood cells from
the affected child.  2.  White blood cells called T cells were separated from
the rest and grown in the laboratory.  3.  Using a special kind of virus as a
"vector," or carrier, molecular biologists transferred the gene for the missing
enzyme into the T cells.  4.  The altered cells were allowed to multiply in the
laboratory.  5.  Periodically, doctors administered some of the altered T cells
to the child intravenously.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1995


                             101 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   OCTOBER 19, 1995, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2; BUSINESS DIGEST

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: Biotech Acquisition

BODY:

    A unit of French pharmaceutical maker Rhone-Poulenc Rorer agreed to buy the
remainder of Applied Immune Sciences Inc., a Santa Clara biotech company working
on cellular and gene therapies. RPR Gencell Inc., which already holds 46 percent
of the company's stock, will pay $ 84.4 million, or $ 11.75 a share. Applied
Immune shares jumped 4 17/32 to close at 11 17/32 on Nasdaq.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1995


                             102 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  October 18, 1995, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Hormone may be important cancer clue

BYLINE: Byron Spice, Science Editor, Post-Gazette

BODY:


   For 20 years, Dr. Hernan Acevedo has toiled outside the mainstream of cancer
research, pursuing an idea that few have given much credence: that the same
hormone that helps sustain a pregnancy promotes the growth of cancer cells.

   The hormone, called human chorionic gonadotropin, or hCG, is normally
produced only during a pregnancy, serving to protect an embryo from attack by
its mother's immune system and to help it implant itself in the womb. Acevedo
looks at this miracle of life, however, and fears he sees life's undoing. He
argues that malignant cells also produce hCG, protecting the cancer from the
body's disease-fighting cells and helping it spread through the body.

   Now, Acevedo, a 70-year-old biochemist at the Allegheny-Singer Research
Institute on the North Side, the research arm of Allegheny General Hospital, has
what he considers irrefutable proof that cancer cells produce hCG. In this
week's issue of the journal Cancer, he and his colleagues report that they have
found ''messenger RNA'' for hCG -- the instructions a cell uses to order the
production of hCG -- inside every type of cancer cell they have examined.

   If what Acevedo found is borne out by other researchers, hCG could be the
common cancer ''marker'' for which scientists have been searching for more than
a century. Such a marker -- present on every cancer cell -- might allow doctors
to quickly and easily diagnose cancer and, perhaps more importantly, give them a
target on which they could focus therapy.

   ''Is hCG this marker? It looks very promising,'' said Dr. John Stevens, vice
president for research grants for the American Cancer Society. ''It offers hope,
but (the research) will have to be carried further.'' Acevedo's latest findings,
he added, are likely to spark that research.

   In addition to this basic research, early attempts have been made to use the
hCG marker as a focus for therapy. Piggybacking on 30 years of contraceptive
vaccine development, doctors at Ohio State University in 1993 and 1994 tested an
anti-hCG vaccine on 23 patients with various types of advanced cancers. In
several cases, the tumors either shrank or stopped growing.

   Those findings, in turn, helped convince the Food and Drug Administration
late last year to approve a clinical trial of the vaccine in 24 patients with
colorectal cancer at the Medical College of Pennsylvania and Hahnemann
University in Philadelphia, said Jeff Lillard, president of Immunotherapy Corp.,
a Tustin, Calif., biotechnology firm that has licensed Ohio State's vaccine for
cancer therapy.

   The Philadelphia study could have been under way eight months ago, Lillard
said. ''I have FDA approval. I have over 1,000 doses of vaccine ready to treat
people.'' What he doesn't have is $ 3.5 million to pay for the study.

   The lack of money says more about the sorry state of biotechnology stocks
than about the science behind the study, Lillard said.

   Acevedo, a native of Santiago, Chile, spent much of his career studying the
chemistry of hormones and steroids. Thirty years ago, when he came to
Allegheny-Singer, he investigated how cholesterol in the urine could be used as
an indicator of cancer activity.

   But he saw parallels between the cancer process and pregnancy that were
impossible to ignore and 20 years ago shifted the focus of his research to
understanding the relationship.

   In his windowless basement office, he sorts through slides of embryos. ''From
the view of an oncologist, this is the worst cancer I've ever seen,'' he said,
holding up a slide of an embryo embedding itself in the wall of the uterus. Just
like a malignant tumor, the embryo grows rapidly inside the mother without
interference from the mother's disease-fighting immune system. Without the
intervention of hCG, he explained, the immune system would attack the embryo as
a foreign body, aborting the pregnancy.

   Likewise, hCG allows the embryo to implant itself on the uterine wall and tap
into the mother's blood supply, just as a malignant tumor is able to spread
through tissues and move to other areas of the body.

   When Acevedo began his investigations, he used various reagents to show that
hCG was present on the surface of cancer cells. But Dr. James McMaster, director
of Allegheny-Singer, said such reagents for hCG may sometimes react with other
molecules on the cell surface, always leaving doubt as to whether the reagents
were really showing the presence of hCG.

   But by using the tools of molecular biology for his latest study, Acevedo was
able to show the presence in the cancer cells of hCG's messenger RNA, an
indication that hCG didn't just happen to be on the surface of the cancer cells
or that the early tests showing hCG's presence weren't mistaken.

   In an editorial accompanying Acevedo's Cancer report, Dr. William Regelson,
an oncologist at the Medical College of Virginia, wrote that no one can be
certain why malignant cells express hCG, but said there is ample evidence that
hCG plays the same role in cancer as it does in pregnancy -- to protect the cell
from the body's immune system.

   ''We must acknowledge that Acevedo's group has given us a new and original
avenue for cancer control and study,'' Regelson concluded.

   Shortcircuiting hCG's protective effects was the goal of Ohio State's Dr.
Vernon Stevens when he began developing an anti-hCG vaccine 30 years ago.
Stevens, an obstetrician-gynecologist, was interested in a vaccine to prevent
pregnancy but, even then, suspected that it might also be used to treat certain
cancers.

   The vaccine tricks the body to attack hCG by taking a piece of the hormone
and attaching it to a piece of bacteria that the body's immune system recognizes
as foreign. The immune system then produces antibodies that attack the hCG.

   Acevedo, who has collaborated with Vernon Stevens, said the antibodies bore
into cells that have the hCG marker, causing them to explode.

   Immunotherapy Corp. in 1990 licensed Stevens' vaccine for use in treating
cancers.

   In 1993, an Ohio State oncologist, Dr. Pierre Triozzi, used the vaccine to
treat 23 patients with various types of cancer that had failed conventional
treatment. Though the study was designed primarily to show that the vaccine was
safe in cancer patients, tumors in two patients with colorectal cancer shrank,
at least temporarily, and the tumors of four patients with pancreatic cancer
stopped growing while they were receiving the vaccine, Triozzi reported last
year in the International Journal of Oncology.

   Vernon Stevens said the idea of fighting cancers with antibodies may have
gotten short shrift from many immunologists because more attention has been
focused on fighting cancers by activating the body's killer cells, components of
the immune system that are more potent than antibodies. ''We're hoping Acevedo's
work will change some views,'' he added.

   The notion of using antibodies to fight cancer has had a rocky history,
acknowledged Dr. Michael Lotze, co-director of the University of Pittsburgh
Cancer Institute's Biologic Therapeutics Program, but it is hardly heretical, as
more researchers are reporting encouraging results. Acevedo's findings are
potentially very interesting, he added, ''though my initial instinct is there
are a lot of maybes there.''

   One of the maybes that needs to be addressed, said the American Cancer
Society's John Stevens, is whether hCG is truly as universal as Acevedo
suggests. Acevedo's study is based on laboratory-grown cancer cell lines. More
studies are necessary to show that all or most malignancies in patients show hCG
markers, he contended.

   Dr. Donald Trump, deputy director of the Pitt Cancer Institute, questioned
whether hCG would ever have much potential as a means of early diagnosis; even
if present in all tumors, hCG does not seem to be produced in amounts great
enough to spill over into the blood stream in detectable levels. But even if
present in small amounts, it might prove an interesting target, not only of
antibody-based therapies, but of gene therapies.

   Acevedo, for his part, makes no claim of finding a cure. Even if hCG makes a
good target, no therapy will be successful at obliterating all cancer cells. But
hCG therapies could keep cancers from spreading unchecked -- a process called
metastasis.

   Cancer, Acevedo said, is something you can live with. ''It's the metastasis
that kills you. Control the metastasis and you control the disease.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette: Dr. Hernan Acevedo with a slide
demonstrating how the immune system fails to attack cells.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1995


                             103 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    October 17, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Pioneer in biotech offers view of future

BYLINE: MARK GUIDERA, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Imagine a day, says M. James Barrett, when a simple injection of genetic
material could help people suffering from painful cancers effectively fight the
diseases with few, if any, side effects.

   No more nausea, diarrhea or other debilitating effects from chemotherapy or
radiation. The scary picture of going into surgery eliminated.

   "This is where the next generation of medicine is headed," says Mr. Barrett,
the chairman and co-founder of Genetic Therapy, which yesterday was honored by
the Greater Baltimore Committee for its huge revenue growth -- 9,643 percent --
during the past five years.

   Founded in 1986, Genetic Therapy was the fastest growing company in Maryland
between 1990 and 1995, according to the GBC, which yesterday honored the company
and 39 others for their performance during its first Fast 40 Technology Awards
event, held in Baltimore.

   The company's promise for making gene therapy, which involves using pieces of
DNA to treat disease, helped rocket the biotechnology company's revenues to $
17.2 million in 1994, up from just $ 177,000 in 1990.

   Genetic Therapy by no means had the highest revenues of any of the companies
honored yesterday. Integrated Health Services, an Owings Mills company providing
post-acute care services, had the highest revenues of the top 40 -- $ 682
million. Fourteen other firms also had larger revenues than Genetic Therapy.

   But the prospect of the company's reaping revenues in hundreds of millions of
dollars annually is so strong that it attracted deep-pocket investors.

   Among them was Swiss pharmaceutical giant Sandoz Ltd., whose payments for
research accounted for a "vast majority" of Genetic Therapy's revenue growth in
the past five years, said Marc Schneenbaum, Genetic Therapy's chief financial
officer. Sandoz bought the company in August, paying $ 295 million or $ 21 a
share for the company, a tidy return for those that bought the stock when it
went public at $ 9 a share.

   The message to biotechnology companies, said Mr. Barrett: "Your most
important asset is your intellectual property."

   The Gaithersburg-based company is developing ways to treat at least 11
diseases with gene therapy. Among the potentially profitable areas the company
is conducting research: leukemia, malignant melanoma, AIDS and Gaucher disease,
which causes weak bones and enlarged organs.

   Mr. Barrett, whom some have called the father of the biotechnology industry
in Maryland, remains pragmatic.

   "Gene Therapy could either be a huge success or a huge flop. There is still a
lot of research to be done before we can say," said Mr. Barrett. "But the trials
so far look very promising. Hopefully this will be the front-line therapy one
day. That would be a great thing. It would be a vastly different experience for
the patient than chemo or radiation."

   His cautious outlook is apparently well-founded.

   For one, there are years and millions more to be spent before Genetic Therapy
and its new parent, Sandoz, before the company could see Food and Drug
Administration approvals to commercialize a product.

   And last year the New England Journal of Medicine reported that gene therapy
failed to deliver benefits to all people afflicted with cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy in two separate studies.

   But Mr. Schneebaum notes that the cystic fibrosis study at least did show
that the genes given to participants did transfer to the body, a finding he
argues shows that the therapy can work if there is more research.

   "Gene therapy is alive and well," he said. "What we are doing holds the
potential to change the face of medicine."

   For now, Genetic Therapy remains like most of the other other 1,300 U.S.
biotechnology companies: in the red.

   Last year the company had a net loss of $ 5.5 million. Huge losses like that
are the result of the high costs of research yet to be balanced with approved
products for the marketplace, although some industry analysts say that day could
be near for several biotechnology companies.

   Mr. Barrett says the pressure is on for his company to get that coveted FDA
approval to market one of its genetically engineered products.

   Mr. Barrett is particularly hopeful about the company's strongest candidate
thus far: a gene therapy for inoperable and operable brain cancer.

   That therapy is scheduled to go into final trials early next year, he said.
One of the trial sites will be at the Johns Hopkins Hospital.

   Mr. Barrett also is upbeat about the company's newest field of inquiry:
removing cells from the body, altering them genetically, and placing them back
into the body so they correct a disease. Scientists working for the company are
attempting to determine how such therapy could be used.

   That therapy holds the potential to treat genetic disorders such as cystic
fibrosis, a deadly clotting of the lungs, and hemophilia, a debilitating blood
disorder.

   "To me, it's this kind of research that is more exciting than what our
revenues might happen to be," said Mr. Barrett.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GARO LACHINIAN: SUN STAFF, On track: James Barrett is of the
opinion that his business is "where the next generation of medicine is headed."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995


                             104 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    October 17, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Maryland's Fast 40 tech companies

BODY:


   Following are the winners of the Greater Baltimore Committee's Fast 40
awards:

   Company -- Business -- '94 revenue in millions -- 5-year growth

   Genetic Therapy -- Biotechnology -- $ 17.2 -- 9,644%

   Digital Express -- Internet access -- $ 1.5 -- 2,144

   HCIA -- Health care info. -- $ 30.7 -- 1,493

   Neocera -- R&D -- $ 1.3 -- 1,413

   A&L Shatto -- Eng. services -- $ 1.2 -- 706

   ComPro Systems -- Cmpt. network -- $ 8.3 -- 678

   RWD Technologies -- Info. technology -- $ 29.0 -- 654

   Integrated Health -- Post-acute care -- $ 682.0 -- 594

   Telecom. Sys -- Sytems eng. -- $ 13.3 -- 565

   Information Systems -- Info. systems -- $ 5.5 -- 564

   TELOGY Networks -- Telecomm. -- $ 5.2 -- 548

   Tri-Plex -- Storage systems -- $ 7.0 -- 539

   Chesapeake Biolog. -- Bio-pharma. -- $ 6.9 -- 380

   CRMA -- Info. technology -- $ 1.3 -- 330

   Air-Cure Environ. -- Pollution control -- $ 44.7 -- 322

   DIGICON -- Info. systems -- $ 12.2 -- 311

   Digital Productions -- Compu. networks -- $ 1.6 -- 227

   Noise Cancellation -- Electronics -- $ 7.1 -- 223

   ProVar -- Info. technology -- $ 6.0 -- 200

   U.S. Biomaterials -- Medical implants -- $ 1.0 -- 190

   Micro Integration -- Connect. software -- $ 9.5 -- 184

   Skills Bank -- Edu. software -- $ 6.9 -- 169

   Martek -- Marine biotech. -- $ 3.0 -- 167

   Info. Research -- Encryption -- $ 3.4 -- 162

   Sylvan Learning -- Tutoring, tests -- $ 47.0 -- 133

   Micros Systems -- Point-of-sale sys. -- $ 79.3 -- 125

   Tessco -- Wireless commun. -- $ 61.3 -- 117

   Computer Aid -- Info. technology -- $ 3.1 -- 101

   Taylor Technologies -- Water analysis -- $ 5.5 -- 67

   Daniel Consultants -- Transp. eng. -- $ 3.7 -- 67

   F&M Manufacturing -- Manufacturing -- $ 10.0 -- 64

   BioWhittaker -- Biomed. products -- $ 54.6 -- 64

   EA Engineering -- Environ. eng. -- $ 76.9 -- 58

   Life Technologies -- Research products -- $ 235 -- 55

   UNC -- Photonics, manu. -- $ 525 -- 48

   INTERSOLV -- Software -- $ 85.4 -- 36

   Environ. Elements -- Pollution control -- $ 72.6 -- 25

   Polk Audio -- Loudspeakers -- $ 34.0 -- 24

   Universal Security -- Home security -- $ 25.8 -- 19

   Commun. Sys. -- Digital com. -- $ 10.7 -- 17

TYPE: LIST

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995


                             105 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

              October 15, 1995, SUNDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Motorcyclists Should Have Helmet Option

BODY:


   It is sad to see the Sun-Times attack human rights once again. The Sept. 14
editorial suggested that government should force people to wear helmets while
riding motorcycles. The basis of forced motorcycle helmet use is based upon the
fact that the government pays for a few isolated incidents of motorcycle
accident rehabilitation in which the rider did not have health insurance.

   Perhaps the Sun-Times would support eliminating other freedoms because the
government pays for the consequences of poor decisions for another select few.
For example, heart disease, resulting from poor diet and lack of exercise, kills
many more people and costs the taxpayers much more in medical bills.

   Maybe we need the government to force us to exercise and eat properly. We
would not be as happy, but at least we would have someone looking out for our
own good.

   Think of the money taxpayers would save on medical bills!

   Peter S. Karlovics, Gurnee

   Truants' Protest

   Recently, some young people marched around City Hall. They were described in
various media reports as members of 21st Century VOTE, protesters against police
brutality, civil rights protesters, street gang members and a number of other
things.

   Before we label demonstrators we should make an effort to find out who they
really were. The marchers were, for the most part, teenagers truant from
schools.  Encouraging children to be in the streets and not in school, in the
name of civil rights, is a disservice to them, their families and our
communities.

   The real young leaders and activists of the American civil rights movement in
1995 are in school, not in the street. Individually and collectively, these
young people are perfecting the commitment made by the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
They are truly demonstrating and confronting society, with their personal and
collective academic effort and achievement.

   Adults who encourage children to skip school and engage in anti-social
behavior in the name of civil rights abuse the children and trivialize the
intent and commitment of the civil rights movement.

   Ray Scannell, Evergreen Park

   No Breakthrough

   Can old news travel fast? Readers may be asking themselves this after seeing
the report (news story, Sept. 28) that an experimental procedure called myoblast
transfer is so far ineffective against Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. Studies by
the Muscular Dystrophy Association have supported that conclusion since 1993.

   That's why MDA emphasizes more promising forms of gene therapy in its effort
seeking treatments or cures for this fatal childhood disorder and many other
neuromuscular diseases.

   Let's hope the news travels far. Because, despite the fact that every truly
scientific study of myoblast transfer has shown the procedure to be ineffective,
the Cell Therapy Research Foundation of Memphis, Tenn., continues to offer it as
a "treatment" for children -- as long as their parents can come up with a $
120,000 fee.

   Scientists funded by MDA developed myoblast transfer in the late 1980s,
shortly after we located the genetic defect responsible for Duchenne dystrophy.
The painful technique involves injecting donated muscle cells into patients in
hopes of stimulating growth of healthy muscle fibers. When early human trials
failed to yield results that would justify the time, expense, discomfort and
possible risks of the procedure, MDA still supported additional trials to verify
the initial findings.

   At the same time, our research program focused greater attention on a more
complex, but more promising form of gene therapy, one that doesn't require
transplanting whole cells. We now have a gene that halts the disease in
laboratory animals. After proper scientific foundation and safety are
established, we hope to begin human trials of this approach.

   The failure of myoblast transfer as presently practiced is by no means a
failure of gene therapy as a whole. MDA supports some 22 gene therapy projects
representing a funding commitment of more than $ 4 million. At the same time,
we're looking for ways to improve myoblast transfer.

   Robert Ross, senior vice

   president and executive

   director, Muscular Dystrophy

   Association, Tucson, Ariz.

   Lessons on India

   I read the letter from Sarah Worklan (Sept. 27). I am from India and am
surprised by the magnitude of her ignorance. India is the world's largest
democracy, and the barbaric practice of punishing with lashes simply doesn't
exist in India. India is a secular country and certainly not under Islamic rule.

   V. Srikanth, O'Hare

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1995


                             106 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                    October 15, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL (NEWS), Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Breast cancer effort gets help; $ 2.1 million raised; Hopkins expert
to fill new research post

BYLINE: Will Englund, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Something called "translational research" is a hot topic in medical science
these days. And it's precisely what won Dr. Nancy E. Davidson appointment to a
newly endowed and decidedly unusual chair for breast cancer research at the
Johns Hopkins Oncology Center that was announced yesterday.

   Translational research means figuring out how to do something that seems as
if it should be simple but isn't: Using findings of the science laboratory to
create therapies for patients, and, in turn, using patients' experiences to help
guide basic scientific research.

   "There are very few individuals across the country who have both the
scientific knowledge and clinical experience to do this," Dr. Martin D. Abeloff,
director of the oncology center, said yesterday as Dr. Davidson's appointment
was being announced. "Nancy Davidson is one of them."

   What's unusual about the new research chair is that it wasn't the result of a
large gift from a wealthy benefactor, and it won't carry anyone's name.

   The chair and an associated fellowship have been created thanks to a
fund-raising effort by 21 women, most of them breast cancer survivors or
relatives of breast cancer patients.

   Over two years the women raised $ 2.1 million, through a couple of teas and a
lot of one-on-one appeals.

   The idea for the chair was Harriet Legum's. Eight years ago, the Pikesville
resident was diagnosed with breast cancer -- three years after she first began
to suspect it herself. Doctor after doctor had told her she was wrong to worry
about the lump on the side of her left breast. After the cancer finally was
diagnosed, a doctor told her she had a year to live.

   "Luckily, he was wrong," she said yesterday. "As I became stronger
emotionally and started to lose some of my friends to this disease, I realized I
had to do something."

   She was joined by Mollye Block, who had been through a bout of Hodgkin's
disease, a cancer of the lymphatic system. The two women, who have both been
active in fund-raising and organizational work, became co-chairwomen of the
drive.

   "We're both survivors," said Ms. Block, who lives in the city. "We've been
through the same crap."

   They consulted with Dr. Abeloff as well as Dr. Davidson, who since 1986 has
held a faculty position at Hopkins. They delivered the money a year ago, and Dr.
Abeloff began a nationwide search for someone to appoint to the new chair.

   Ms. Legum and Ms. Block had had someone in mind all along -- Dr. Davidson --
and in the end Dr. Abeloff's search committee came to the same conclusion.

   "First of all, she is a woman," said Ms. Legum. "And she is recognized as one
of the best researchers in the country. And she's saved several of my friends'
lives."

   The chair gives Dr. Davidson recognition for her past work, financial
stability for her work, the freedom to engage in long-range planning for her
future work. No longer must she spend half her time trying to line up grants.

   Dr. Davidson, 41, is particularly interested in researching hormonal therapy
for breast cancer. Other researchers are pursuing gene therapy and the
development of a preventive vaccine for breast cancer. Some breast cancers, she
said yesterday, have receptors that make them susceptible to hormonal therapy,
but 30 percent to 40 percent of breast cancers do not.

   Why that is, and whether the receptors in those cancer cells could be
"re-expressed" -- essentially, re-opened to hormone treatment -- are questions
she would hope to answer. And of the cancer cells that do have receptors, Dr.
Davidson said, only half respond well to hormone treatment, and that's another
puzzle.

   She said she also hopes to build bridges to research scientists in other
departments at Hopkins, engaging different disciplines in the fight against a
disease that kills 46,000 Americans a year.

   Her appointment was announced at a forum on women's health with 35 Hopkins
researchers and clinicians -- one that attracted about 700 women, and that also
was organized by the indefatigable Ms. Block and Ms. Legum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KIM HAIRSTON : SUN STAFF, Teaming up against cancer: Harriet
Legum (left), Dr. Nancy E. Davidson, Dr. Martin D. Abeloff and Mollye Block are
leading the effort.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1995


                             107 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    October 13, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 22A, LETTERS

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Muscular dystrophy 'news' is hardly fresh

BODY:


   Can old news travel fast? Some readers of The Sun are likely to be asking
themselves this question after seeing the Sept. 28 New York Times wire service
report that an experimental procedure called myoblast transfer is so far
ineffective against Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Studies by the Muscular
Dystrophy Association have supported that conclusion since 1993.

   That's why MDA emphasizes more promising forms of gene therapy in its
worldwide research effort seeking treatments or cures for this fatal childhood
disorder and many other neuromuscular diseases.

   Let's hope the news travels far, because, despite the fact that every truly
scientific study of myoblast transfer has shown the procedure as presently
practiced to be ineffective, the Cell Therapy Research Foundation of Memphis,
Tenn., continues to offer it as a "treatment" for children with Duchenne -- as
long as their parents can come up with a $ 120,000 fee. One must strongly
question the propriety of this approach to parents who are desperately seeking a
treatment for their youngsters . . .

   Robert Ross

   Tucson, Ariz.

   The writer is the senior vice president and executive director of the
Muscular Dystrophy Association.

Here's the skinny on helping fat children

   I was saddened, but not surprised, to learn that the number of extremely
overweight children in the United States has more than doubled during the past
three decades.

   I was saddened because obesity is a key factor in heart disease, cancer,
stroke, diabetes and other chronic diseases that begin early in life and account
for three-fourths of all deaths in the U.S.; because obesity is frequently
associated with low energy and social stigma; because early dietary and other
lifestyle habits leading to obesity become adult addictions.

   I was not surprised because I know what the schools feed our kids. The
National School Lunch Program has been a virtual dumping ground for the U.S.
Department of Agriculture's surplus meat and dairy commodities. Daily feeding of
meat and milk is mandated by Congress.

   Nutrition education in our schools is provided by self-serving propaganda
from the meat and dairy industries touting the fat- and cholesterol-laden "basic
four food groups."

   Indeed, a 1993 USDA survey found that school lunches contain 38 percent of
calories from fat. U.S. dietary guidelines recommend no more than 30 percent,
and many health authorities recommend even lower values.

   The solution to this national tragedy is for parents to reclaim
responsibility for their children's diets and health by insisting on the
introduction of plant-based meals and nutrition education curricula in their
schools. The curricula and recipes are available from our state health
department and state chapters of the American Cancer Society and the American
Heart Association. For most children, it's not too late.

   Alex Hershaft

   Bethesda

Simpson trial taught lessons

   True, O.J. Simpson was the defendant. However, so were the Los Angeles Police
Department and our criminal justice system as we thought it existed.

   One could not help but take note of the racial overtones that tainted the
process -- a black defendant, white victims, a bigoted white detective and a
majority black jury. Even the media and press played on the issues to
sensationalize the story.

   Racial tensions in Los Angeles were expected to become the epicenter of a
shock wave that would once again be felt across the nation. But it never came
with Mr. Simpson's acquittal. . . .

   When the verdict of not guilty was read, downtown Los Angeles sighed with
bittersweet relief. The deaths of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman were
not in vain simply because the district attorney was not able to obtain a
conviction. Two precious lives, nine months and millions of dollars later, we
all learned more about our justice system then we would like to admit.

   Our awareness of its weaknesses were keenly heightened as a result. Now it's
time to make the system stronger, fairer and more accurate. It's time to
remember the victims and their families. And it's time to heal our faith, not
only in the justice system, but also in each other.

   Maurice W. Aiken

   Baltimore

Fells Point is ignored at the city's peril

   In the midst of all the publicity regarding Baltimore's efforts to revitalize
the desirability of city living and rehabilitate decaying neighborhoods through
programs too numerous to mention, city leaders appear to have turned their backs
on one area that was undergoing a highly successful private renaissance: Fells
Point.

   The people who had invested their own time and money to revive the housing
stock and create a stable area of homeowners and small businesses (including a
number of bars) -- the ultimate goals of urban renewal -- have now watched their
efforts destroyed by even more bars with the attendant drunken rowdiness and
vandalism.

   Now many of the people who took the risk to start the revival have become
discouraged and begun to leave. It takes little imagination to see that if the
present trends continue, the result will be another area of abandoned homes, a
large collection of cheap bars and crime -- with the announcement by the city of
an exciting (and costly) new plan to revive Fells Point.

   The good news is that the solution is relatively simple and inexpensive. The
city authorities need only to strictly enforce the existing laws regarding the
issuance and control of liquor licenses. And the police department must strictly
enforce the laws regarding public drunkenness, disturbing the peace and
vandalism.

   The bad news is that the authorities lack the will to take these relatively
simple steps.

   The current situation in Fells Point is totally self-destructive, and the
coming loss will be the entire city's.

   Theodore M. Chandlee Jr.

   Baltimore

Poetic license means rules can be broken

   I am a sophomore at the Institute of Notre Dame school for girls. During one
of my honors English classes, we came upon a Sept. 19 letter written to The Sun
by Wilton H. Shaw concerning the poem "Say You're Sorry" by Chester Wickwire.
After contemplating the issues of this letter, we concluded that the class had a
difference of opinion with Wilton H. Shaw. Who is he to judge the style of
another author? Is there no freedom of expression? Is a man not able to submit
his poem without being criticized?

   Although this poem does not convey the classical definition of poetry,
creative writing should not be restricted by a hard-and-fast definition of
poetry.

   Ashleigh Hicks

   Randallstown

A modest proposal for phone traffic jams

   Why not an area code for the ones that are causing the problem, fax machines,
modems, car phones, etc.?

   John Byrne

   Bishopville

TYPE: LETTER, COLUMN

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1995


                             108 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                    OCTOBER 13, 1995, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: 2 More Bay Area Biotech Companies Ally With Hoechst

BODY:

    Two Bay Area biotech companies announced research deals yesterday with
Hoechst Marion Roussel, the pharmaceutical arm of the German industrial giant
Hoechst AG.

   The new collaborations, involving Palo Alto-based Incyte Pharmaceuticals Inc.
and Hayward- based Lynx Therapeutics Inc., follow a separate announcement
earlier this week of a $ 160 million deal between Hoechst and Cell Genesys Inc.,
a Foster City company working on gene therapies for AIDS.

   Incyte shares rose 7/8 yesterday, closing at 23 on the American Stock
Exchange, after the company said it would provide Hoechst drug developers with
access to Incyte's DNA database, an annotated computer bank of genetic
information. Terms were not disclosed.

   Lynx, whose shares do not trade publicly, said Hoechst will pay up to $ 35
million by the end of 1998 for use of Lynx's high-speed DNA sequencing
technology.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1995


                             109 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                           October 12, 1995 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: LOCAL STORIES; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: OLD SOLDIERS GO TO WAR AGAINST DUCHENNE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY

BYLINE: STEVE DUIN, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Thursday, October 12, 1995 OLD SOLDIERS GO TO WAR AGAINST DUCHENNE MUSCULAR
DYSTROPHY

   For most of these troopers, the war ended far too early. Take the '42 Harley.
The motorcycle was parked on an Oklahoma Army base in 1945 when a GI  stumbled
off a bus on his way home to Oregon.

   The base was virtually deserted -- the Japanese had just surrendered and
everyone was in town fighting to get drunk -- and the kid was homesick. So, he
hopped on the Harley and rode it all the way to Beaverton, where he stashed it
in his parents' barn. It was 40 years before the bike once again saw the light
of day.

   Steve Greenberg has the Harley now, one of 10 old military vehicles in his
keep. Most of them never reached the front, but each still has a story to  tell,
a tale of lost and found. Take the restored 1940 Dodge command car. When a
friend called to say he had the chassis, Greenberg wasn't that impressed. A  lot
of farmers had picked up similar rigs at surplus auctions through the  years,
chopped the bodies off behind the driver's seat and turned them into a  pickups.

   But when the friend said he knew where the command car body was buried,
Greenberg hit the ground running. Thirty miles south of Biggs, he stared down
into a ravine and saw the priceless remains upon a bed of old refrigerators  and
bald tires.

   ``Winched it out of there,'' said Greenberg, a tree trimmer by trade. ``It
was on BLM land, so I thought I was doing the county a service. Cleaning up  the
landscape.''

   Like 200 other guys in Oregon, Greenberg collects these World War II
veterans. He hunts 'em down and fixes 'em up. Now and then, he cranks open the
doors of his sheds on Southeast 82nd Avenue and takes one out for a ride.

   But he despaired of ever seeing these vehicles on a tour of duty. . . .
until he hooked up with the ``Convoy of Hope.''

   The convoy was Dan Janquitto's idea. Janquitto, a New Jersey engineer, is a
collecting buddy of Greenberg's. It's safe to say the hobby consumed him until
his son, Luke, turned 5. That's when doctors told Janquitto why his son so
often lay down on the floor at the mall, begging his parents to carry him for  a
while.

   Luke had Duchenne muscular dystropy, one of the most common and devastating
of genetic diseases.

   ``Take him home, make him comfortable,'' the doctors advised Luke's  parents.
``There's nothing you can do. You're not going to have him for very  long.''

   Few parents are prone to take such advice. Janquitto certainly wasn't. He
studied the disease and talked to more doctors. And he discovered that
researchers have isolated the protein -- dystrophin -- that is missing in the
defective genes of children (invariably boys) with the disease.

   ``We also learned,'' Janquitto said, ``that three or four doctors were 10
months away from clinical trials with children when their funding ran out.''

   Dr. Eric Hoffman, a genetic researcher at the University of Pittsburgh,
noted that the problem of resupplying the body with the missing protein still
is complex.

   ``Dystrophin is an enormous protein; it's like the plaster inside a room,
holding up the walls,'' Hoffman said. ``How do you take something that is
basically a 10-foot 2-by-4 and put it inside every room when you're standing
outside the building?''

   Why you employ a virus, whose goal in life is to deliver DNA. Viruses
normally balk at messing with muscles, Hoffman said, so researchers need more
time to perfect that delivery system.

   To buy researchers that time, Janquitto fired up the Convoy of Hope: a
7,500-mile fund-raising journey from New York to San Diego. The three vehicles
in the convoy? A '42 Dodge command car, a '45 GMC cargo truck and a '45 DUKW
amphibian.

   ``We took 50-year-old military vehicles with no support parts and drove  them
to their limit for 42 days,'' Janquitto said.

   And they were, Janquitto decided, ideally suited for his push to find a  cure
for the disease. ``The vehicles represent a can-do period in the history  of the
United States,'' he said. ``Everyone went to war together. Everyone  cooperated.
They represent what can be accomplished when we work together. I  think that
same spirit can be evoked again.''

   Greenberg drove the DUKW on the final 1,000-mile leg of the trip. This
weekend, he'll have a few of his vehicles at the Northwest Car Collectors'  show
at the Expo Center. If you drop by, he'll replay the trip. He'll slip you the
number (1-800-714-KIDS) of the Parents' Project, which is raising money to keep
Duchenne research moving at the University of Pittsburgh's Gene Therapy  Center.

   And Greenberg may even introduce you to several military heroes who, 50
years after one war ended, have finally reached the front lines of another.

   Steve Duin's column appears Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. Reach him by
phone at 221-8597, by FAX at 294-5159, or by mail at 1320 S.W. Broadway,
Portland 97201.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             110 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   OCTOBER 11, 1995, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Rocky Day For Stock Market

DATELINE: New York

BODY:

    The stock market rebounded from a deep deficit to close with only minor
losses yesterday, spurred by the view that the fall may have been overdone.

   The Dow Jones industrial average was off 5.42 points at 4,720.80, after
erasing a huge loss of more than 60 points. In the broader market, declining
issues beat advances 1,433 to 844 on very active volume of 412 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange.

   The Nasdaq composite index recovered just as spectacularly to end with a loss
of 1.27 points at 983.47.

   Analysts said that the market's plunge was sparked by Motorola Corp., which
warned of moderating growth in the cellular phone business in the United States
and Europe even though its earnings were in line with expectations. Motorola was
hammered, losing 5 to end at 64 on massive volume of more than 13.8 million
shares.

   High techs also were adversely affected by a September book-to- bill ratio
for the semiconductor industry -- a measure of business activity -- which came
in at the low end of expectations. It dropped to 1.11 in September from a
revised reading of 1.17 in August.

   The Chronicle/BayTV/Bloomberg index of 124 Bay Area companies rose 0.72 to
156.71.

   Shares of Cell Genesys Inc., a Foster City biotechnology company working on
potential gene therapies for AIDS, soared after Hoechst Marion Roussel, the
Kansas City-based pharmaceutical division of Germany's Hoechst AG, announced a $
150 million collaboration. Cell Genesys stock jumped 1 7/16 to 7 1/2 on Nasdaq.

   The price of the benchmark 30- year Treasury bond dropped 1/4 point to yield
6.44 percent from 6.42 percent on Friday. The market was closed Monday in
observance of Columbus Day.


GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,CHRONICLE, BAYTV, BLOOMBERG INDEX , CHRONICLE GRAPHIC

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995


                             111 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            October 10, 1995 Tuesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: LOCAL STORIES; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: OHSU TEAM CROSSES BLOOD-BRAIN THRESHOLD

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Tuesday, October 10, 1995 OHSU TEAM CROSSES BLOOD-BRAIN THRESHOLD

   Summary: Oregon researchers develop a method of making resistant  brain
cancer cells susceptible to attack by anti-viral drugs

   An Oregon research team's method of getting anti-cancer drugs into the  brain
may be an important step toward delivering disease-fighting genetic  material to
resistant tumors.

   Dr. Edward A. Neuwelt heads the team, which has reported using a virus to
slip foreign genes into cancerous brain cells that anti-viral drugs can then
recognize and attack.

   A report on the Oregon team's work in rats appears in the Tuesday issue of
the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   The unique feature of the work is that the researchers breached the nearly
impregnable blood-brain barrier to get to widespread tumors.

   ``The idea is that this gives us a new avenue of therapy for tumors that  are
resistant to standard chemotherapy,'' said Neuwelt, who has 20 years of
experience opening the blood-brain barrier to a number of medicines. He is a
professor in the Oregon Health Sciences University School of Medicine.

   The team's method of getting across the blood-brain barrier to deliver  viral
vectors -- biological ``taxicabs'' designed to carry a therapeutic agent into a
diseased cell -- might be ready for use in patients in about one to two years,
he said.

   ``We're not trying to make better vectors. Our goal is to get other
researchers' vectors in,'' Neuwelt said.

   To reach tumors in the inner brain, the Oregon researchers had to deliver a
virus strain across the blood-brain barrier, which normally prevents toxins,
infectious agents and large drug molecules from crossing into the brain.
Previously, gene transfers to the central nervous system were accomplished  only
by surgical methods or by using a needle to inject genetic material  directly
into a tumor.

   Surgical and needle methods work well in laboratory animals, ``but in the
human brain, which is a thousand times larger than a rodent brain, the
distribution of genetic material through the entire tumor has not been  adequate
to achieve similar success in clinical trials,'' Neuwelt said.

   Neuwelt and his colleagues pioneered a drug-delivery technique that uses a
sugar solution to temporarily alter the blood-brain barrier and allow
substances injected into the bloodstream to get into the brain. Starting first
with animal models and later moving to humans, Neuwelt has performed more than
4,000 procedures in about 300 patients since 1979.

   ``Right now our results with standard chemotherapy are getting very good
responses,'' Neuwelt said. ``We have patients with certain kinds of tumors  that
are very sensitive to chemotherapy who are alive and disease-free for 12  years.
In other tumors we can get responses, but they are not  long-standing.''

   His group has reported good results in treating patients with malignant
brain tumors, including lymphoma, glioma, germ-cell tumors and primitive
neuroectodermal tumors.

   In the new study, the researchers used herpesvirus and adenovirus -- the
most commonly proposed viral vectors for tumor therapy -- to carry a thymidine
kinase gene into rapidly dividing cancer cells. The combined virus and gene
infected the tumor cell and inserted the altered gene into the cell workings,
thereby marking it for destruction by antiviral agents.

   The researchers speculate that herpesvirus, which infected only tumor  cells,
may be a better choice for cancer therapy. They believe adenovirus,  which
infected both diseased and healthy tissue, may be better suited for gene therapy
for degenerative diseases that affect the whole brain.

   Leslie L. Muldoon, co-author of the report, said the Oregon researchers are
collaborating with centers that are working with safer viral vectors that
eventually can be used in humans. The other members of the Oregon team include
Dr. Gajanan Nilaver, Robert A. Kroll and Michael A. Pagel.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             112 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            October 10, 1995 Tuesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: MEDICARE: BAD CHOICES

BODY:

   Tuesday, October 10, 1995 MEDICARE: BAD CHOICES

   Summary: Neither the Republicans nor President Clinton has offered a
Medicare rescue that will work

   Here's the most important thing to remember as two House committees vote  on
Medicare this week: The Republicans' plan won't save Medicare.

   The second most important thing? Neither will the Democrats' plan.

   Neither the GOP nor the Clinton proposal addresses the fundamental problems
with Medicare, problems that will grow as the demographic heap of baby boomers
turns gray.

   So the real difference between the current proposals is energy level. The
Republicans would do the wrong thing quickly and forcefully; the Democrats
would wring their hands longer while  program collapse.

   - What happened to the Republicans' desire to fix Medicare? That goal was
smashed by the need to cut $270 billion from anticipated Medicare spending in
the next seven years. That's the magic number that balances the budget while
allowing a tax cut.

   GOP plan doesn't secure the future of the Medicare trust fund. It merely
delays by seven years, until 2009, the date at which that fund is expected to
become insolvent.

   Worse yet, the Republicans reach that less-than-perfect goal mostly by
squeezing down government reimbursements to hospitals for Medicare services.  So
the GOP uses the decidedly un-Republican tool of government price controls  to
reach a goal that falls far short of reform.

   The results are predictable and inevitable:

   -  Unrealistically low Medicare reimbursement rates will encourage  hospitals
and physicians to turn Medicare patients away.

   -  Those who are forced to take Medicare recipients will shift unreimbursed
costs to their non-Medicare patients.

   - That will raise prices and make insurance unaffordable for even more
businesses and families.

   Other, positive steps the Republicans propose become meaningless against
that backdrop. Charging the wealthy elderly more for their Medicare premiums,
allowing the age of eligibility to rise to 67 along with Social Security,
forcing fee-for-service options to compete with more efficient managed care
plans, and experimenting with individual health accounts all make sense. But
none of those changes will matter.

   When the elderly start feeling the pain caused by fairy-tale GOP Medicare
reimbursements, all chances for real reform will come to an unhappy ending.  The
Republicans may be giving up their best and only shot for true Medicare  reform.

   - How to fix Medicare?

   1. Find a way to talk in meaningful terms about what any particular  Medicare
budget will buy.

   Oregon has come up with a workable strategy. Rank the cost and  effectiveness
of various medical treatments. Then, the trade-offs between  spending a higher
or lower amount of money become clear.

   More important, the development of new technology (perhaps gene therapies
for the elderly) won't throw the entire Medicare -- and federal government's  --
budget out of whack. Those new treatments will simply compete against the  old,
with the most useful care winning funding.

   Current Republican and Democrat proposals take the ostrich approach to
dealing with the cost of new technology. They just pretend that if they can't
see it, it doesn't exist.

   2. Base Medicare budgets on reasonable assumptions about the market price
for medical care.

   Unrealistic reimbursement rates simply add to the confusing cost-shifting
that already makes it difficult for people to tell how much medical services
cost. Individuals can't become wiser shoppers as long as the government  demands
make-believe pricing.

   3. Allow individuals to choose among a broad array of competing Medicare
plans. That will help the market weed out waste and fraud.

   4. Address the need for Medicare to provide protection from catastrophic
illness and long-term care. Both of those services now are provided by
Medicaid. GOP cuts for Medicaid leave little likelihood that that program can
continue to fund nursing home and other care for the impoverished elderly
without hurting the care available to impoverished children and families.

   5. Come to terms with the fact that America's patchwork of government- and
employer-provided health insurance leaves too many people without access to
basic health care.

   Medicare reform won't solve the overall health care problem. This country
cannot continue to deny care to the children and young Americans on whose  backs
the future of this country rests.

   Fixing Medicare isn't the end of the work. It's the beginning.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             113 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             October 8, 1995 Sunday

SECTION: REAL ESTATE; Pg. H-14

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: UCSD adds to medical complex

BYLINE: Kelly Terry

BODY:

   Construction has been completed on the $20 million Cellular and Molecular
Medicine East Building at UCSD. The 90,000-square-foot facility will house a
variety of molecular biology research programs and studies, including
initiatives in gene therapy, cancer and neuroscience. General contractor was
Burkhart, Liu Inc., in association with Moore Rubell Yudell.

   LBL served as the architect for the project, which is the fourth research
institution in the health sciences master plan and completes the research
quadrangle west of the School of Medicine. Construction Bulk distribution
inventory building: Security Capital Industrial Trust of Denver has begun
construction on a 200,000-square-foot, $8.6 million bulk-distribution facility
in the Eastgate Distribution Center in the Miramar industrial area.

   The general contractor is R.G. Petty.

   The architect is Pacific Cornerstone Architects. Transactions [] Santa
Barbara and Portland, Ore., investors have purchased Meadowbrook, a 332-space
adult mobile home community at 8301 Mission Gorge Road in Santee for $12.3
million.

   The seller was Merrill Lynch.

   The broker was SperryVanNess. [] Hamann Investment Co. has purchased
Allred-Collins Business and Industrial Park West on Copley Drive for $6 million.

   The seller was SPV Real Estate Partners.

   The broker was Business Real Estate/New America Network. [] DH Holdings has
purchased the Spring Villas Apartments at 8760-68 Jamacha Road in Spring Valley
for $2.8 million.

   The seller was Pioneer Liquidating Corp. The broker was Sure Investments. []
The city of San Diego Redevelopment Agency has purchased 12,500 square feet of
industrial property at 1965 National Ave. for $685,000. The sellers were
Catherine Atkinson, Michael K. Hewett and Judy Hewett.

   The broker was Grubb & Ellis. [] COMMERCIAL NOTES reports on construction
projects, leases and land/building sales in San Diego County, limited to those
with a value exceeding $500,000. To submit an item for consideration, send
complete information to: Homes, San Diego Union-Tribune, P.O. Box 191, San
Diego, CA 92112-4106. A form will be provided upon request.

GRAPHIC: 1 PIC; CAPTIONS: Campus stand-out: The new Cellular and Molecular
Medicine East Building at UCSD completes a research quadrangle west of the
School of Medicine.; PHOTOBY: JIM BRADY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             114 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                    October 8, 1995 Sunday, EAST NEW ORLEANS

SECTION: PICAYUNE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: VENTILATION ASSISTANCE IS OFFERED AT FREE CAMP

BYLINE: BY JANE PIC

BODY:

   The Ventilation Assisted Children's Center of Miami Children's Hospital
sponsors a free camp for children needing oxygen, tracheotomies, ventilators and
other related assistance - and for their mothers, fathers and siblings. The camp
will be held April 9-15, 1996, in Miami.

   The camp offers such families an opportunity to socialize with peers and
enjoy activities not generally accessible to children who are
technology-dependent. Activities include field trips, swimming, games, arts and
crafts, entertainment and special events.

   The application deadline is Jan. 5. For information, write to Cathy Klein,
coordinator, VACC, Division of Pulmonology, Miami Children's Hospital, 3200 SW
60th Court, Suite 203, Miami, Fla. 33155-4076; call (305) 662-8222; or fax to
(305) 663-8417.

   Fanconi anemia is a hereditary form of aplastic anemia, associated with
cardiac, kidney and skeletal abnormalities. A new edition of "Fanconi Anemia: A
Handbook for Families and Their Physicians" is available.

   Updated sections cover bone marrow transplants, gene therapy and long-term
clinical treatment. For a copy, write to the FA Research Fund, 1902 Jefferson
St., Suite 2, Eugene, Ore. 97405, or call (503) 687-4658. The cost is $2.50,
including postage.

   Children's Hospital offers a support group for mothers of children with HIV
or AIDS.

   This is a very caring and informative support group. For information, call
524-4611 Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.

   Jane Pic is the mother of a young adult with Down syndrome. Contact her at
P.O. Box 9062, Metairie, La. 70055-9062.

COLUMN: A Step Up

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1995


                             115 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          October 6, 1995 Friday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Genetic knowledge brings ethical dilemmas

BODY:

   The cystic fibrosis gene illustrates both the hope and the frustration of
genomic research.

   Six years ago, while he was at the University of Michigan, Francis Collins,
the director of the Human Genome Project, discovered a single mistake in the
genetic code that led to the fatal lung disease.

   Since then, a diagnostic test for cystic fibrosis has been developed, and a
number of gene therapy experiments are under way to try to replace the flawed
gene. But so far, researchers have been unable to insert enough normal genes to
effect a cure.

   Another concern is privacy. Genome researchers fear that employers or
insurance companies will discriminate against persons known to be at risk for
genetic disease, even though they are still healthy.

   Physician Kathy Hudson, assistant director of the National Center for Human
Genome Research, said 22% of families diagnosed with a genetic flaw have been
denied health insurance.

   A federal task force on the ethical implications of genome research has
recommended legislation prohibiting such discrimination. Wisconsin is one of the
few states that has laws that do not allow insurance companies and others to
discriminate against someone because of results of genetic testing.

   Genome project officials also worry about emotional harm to people who learn
they have a defective gene before a treatment is available.

   Danilo Tagle, a scientist at the National Center for Human Genome Research,
said people ask: "What good would this knowledge do to me if there is no cure?"

   But Collins insisted that, on balance, it is better to know than not to know.

   He told Congress about a woman, identified only as Beth M., who was about to
undergo a hysterectomy to reduce the risk of an inherited form of cancer that
killed her father and two brothers.

   Thanks to a test made possible by the genome project, he said, Beth learned
she did not have the defective gene and was spared unnecessary surgery and fear.

   Despite the concerns, deciphering the genetic code continues at an
accelerating rate.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995


                             116 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             October 6, 1995 Friday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: DepoTech's IPO raises $41 million

BYLINE: CRAIG D. ROSE, Staff Writer

BODY:

   DepoTech Corp. has vaulted into the ranks of well-financed, publicly traded
biotechnology start-ups by completing an initial public offering that generated
$41.4 million. The company said yesterday that its underwriters topped off the
recent stock offering by exercising their rights to an over-allotment of 450,000
shares. In total, DepoTech sold 3.45 million shares at $12 each.

   The 6-year-old company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that investors who bought before the offering hold 7.8 million shares
and paid an average of $3.19 per share. DepoTech plans to use the proceeds from
the offering to fund further product development and to buy equipment for
manufacturing, administrative and scientific uses. The company has bet nearly
all on the development of a sustained-release drug technology, which it has
dubbed DepoFoam. The company's strategy is to couple DepoFoam with approved
drugs or those in later stages of development.

   Through a collaboration with Chiron Corp., DepoTech plans to use DepoFoam to
deliver gene-therapy products, vaccines and certain growth factors. The local
biotech company reported a net loss for the six months ended June 30 of $1.4
million, or 17 cents per share.

   This compares with a net loss of $3.8 million, or 59 cents per share, in the
same period last year. DepoTech, a development-stage company without product
revenues, reported contract income of $3.8 million in the first half of this
year, up from contract income of about $195,000 in the first part of 1994.
Subtracting underwriting fees and other costs, the company expects to have about
$40 million in cash after the offering. DepoTech said in August that interim
results from advanced human testing of a generic anticancer drug delivered with
DepoFoam showed extended survival times.

   The formulation was administered to patients with solid tumors, and their
progress was compared with patients receiving conventional treatment. The
company plans to have final results this year for the tumor treatment, which it
is developing with Chiron.

   DepoTech plans to file for clearance to market the drug in 1996.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             117 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     October 5, 1995 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: GENETIC REMEDY AIDS INFANTS ;
CLEVELAND GIRL WAS PIONEER PATIENT

BYLINE: By ROBERT COOKE

DATELINE: NEWSDAY

BODY:

   The first genetic engineering experiment done to correct an inborn immune
deficiency disease in newborn babies seems to be successful, giving the infants
strong immunity and less vulnerability to infections, doctors said Monday.

   The genetic-treatment was pioneered about five years ago on a girl from the
Cleveland area.

   The girl, who has not been identified, was 4 when the first-of-its-kind
experiment began. Researchers have since modified the methods to work on
newborns.

   The new results "are enormously encouraging," said Dr. R. Michael Blaese. "It
looks like we might have gotten to the Holy Grail of getting a gene into the
stem cells" to treat a dangerous inherited disorder.

   The disease, ADA-deficiency, destroys the immune system, leaving children
unprotected against infection. It is also known as the "Bubble Kids disease."

   The latest experimental treatments began almost two years ago, immediately
after the infants were born. The doctors took blood samples from the babies'
umbilical cords, screened them to find stem cells, infected the cells with a
gene-carrying virus, then four days later put the engineered cells back into the
infants.

   The newborns also were given an enzyme treatment, called PEG-ADA, to help
boost immunity while the gene therapy experiment was beginning. The combined
treatments gave them normal immunity, where ordinarily there would have been
none.

   Blaese, at the National Institutes of Health, collaborated with Drs. Donald
Kohn, Robertson Parkman and several colleagues at Children's Hospital in Los
Angeles, and at other research centers. A detailed report on their work was to
appear in the journal Nature Medicine.

   Inborn immune deficiency is seen about once in every 250,000 live births in
the United States, and ADA-deficiency accounts for about one-fourth of these
cases.

   The new work "really shows that you can get cord blood cells from a newborn,
put a gene into them, give them back, and some of them make new blood cells for
at least two years," Kohn said.

   It is still too soon to be sure, Blaese added, but "there is a reasonable
chance that we might have cured these kids" of the inborn genetic disease.
"Within the next year we'll have a much better idea" of whether the implanted,
engineered cells last long enough to be considered a cure, he said.

   The uncertainty concerns whether the engineered cells will last a lifetime,
and whether they make enough of the missing enzyme - adenosine deaminas - to
keep the children healthy. To find out, Blaese said, the children are being
weaned off the PEG-ADA enzyme treatment; doses have been reduced by half in the
past nine months, without problems.

   In the past, such children had to live for years in large plastic bubbles -
sterile isolation chambers - to keep infections at bay. They can now sometimes
be saved with bone marrow transplants, or with PEG-ADA at a cost of $250,000 a
year, and perhaps eventually with gene therapy.

   The work announced Monday is the second gene therapy experiment aimed at the
rare genetic disorder. Five years ago Blaese, Dr. Kenneth Culver, W. French
Anderson and their colleagues isolated white blood cells from two young Ohio
girls, including the girl from near Cleveland, infected the cells with an
engineered virus, and then put the altered cells back into the girls.

   The results were similar: near-normal immunity was restored and the girls
have remained healthy. But it is still not clear if the gene treatment or the
drug, PEG-ADA, should get the credit.

   Blaese added, however, that the girls' drug doses also were reduced by half,
"and they're still in great shape."

   The difference this time was in the use of stem cells. These very immature
cells keep dividing throughout life, producing all of the cells of the blood
system, including red cells, T-cells, B-cells, monocytes and others. In the two
Ohio girls, mature white blood cells, with limited lifetime, were the targets of
gene therapy.

   In the new experiment, Blaese said, the researchers got a rare opportunity
because the three families - two in California, one in Canada - knew they were
vulnerable to having infants with the disease. After prenatal tests showed their
fetuses had the deficiency, "they elected to search for alternative treatments."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995


                             118 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                        October 4, 1995 Wednesday, THIRD

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: GENE TRIALS: SETBACKS, OPTIMISM

BODY:

   To the medical scientists who last week reported disappointing results in
treating cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy patients with experimental gene
therapy, the failure to "hit a home run on the first pitch" was not
disheartening.

   The results of the trials were not what sufferers of the lethal inherited
diseases were hoping to hear, but researchers sought to reassure them there was
cause for optimism, at least in the cystic fibrosis study.

   The reports were published in the New England Journal of Medicine. In both
experiments, researchers attempted to reverse the illnesses by giving victims
the healthy gene they were born without.

   In recent years, scientists have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. The discoveries led to speculation that cures could be effected by
replacing the bad genes with good ones. But the trial results suggest it won't
be that easy.

   In the cystic fibrosis experiment, researchers from the University of North
Carolina used a weakened adenovirus, a form of the cold virus, to get normal
genes into the nasal linings of patients. But it wasn't enough to correct the
defect.

   Dr. Michael Knowles and his colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimated that to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the adenovirus
approach, believes scientists can fine-tune the virus so that it will reliably
carry in the gene.

   "It clearly is going to work," he said. "It's frustrating for everyone,
including the families of kids with this disease, because we feel we are on the
verge of a quantum leap. The question is how to do it the best way. It takes
time."

   In the gene treatment involving 12 boys with muscular dystrophy, the experts
seemed less optimistic. After six months, there was no sign that it helped the
patients.

   Using an approach called myoblast transfer, Dr. Jerry Mendell and other
researchers from Ohio State University injected healthy muscle cells into the
volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new cells would fuse with the victims'
own muscle cells, giving them the good gene they lacked.

   "We don't believe myoblast transfer has been developed enough to continue
work in patients," said Donald Wood of the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

   The hopeful message of medical researchers is that gene therapy is a healthy
scientific process that is well worth pursuing. Indeed, more than 100 human
experiments are under way in efforts to correct a variety of inherited and
acquired illnesses, including AIDS, cancer and heart trouble.

   Medical science is still feeling its way in a field that is only about five
years old. The outcomes of the cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy trials
were a sobering reality check. Today, the talk among gene researchers is not of
a quick cure but of ultimate success.

   In these early innings of the game, it is important that the nation's public
and private sectors continue to adequately support the work of disease-fighting
pioneers such as the research teams at North Carolina and Ohio State.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995


                             119 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                        October 4, 1995 Wednesday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. F14

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: GENE TRIAL BOOSTS INFANT IMMUNITY

BYLINE: By ROBERT COOKE Newsday

BODY:

   The first genetic engineering experiment done to correct an inborn immune
deficiency disease in newborn babies seems to be successful, giving the infants
strong immunity and less vulnerability to infections, doctors said Monday.

   The new results "are enormously encouraging," said Dr. R. Michael Blaese. "It
looks like we might have gotten to the Holy Grail of getting a gene into the
stem cells" to treat a dangerous inherited disorder. The disease,
ADA-deficiency, destroys the immune system, leaving children unprotected against
infection. It is also known as the "Bubble Kids disease."

   Treatments began almost two years ago, immediately after the infants were
born. The doctors took blood samples from the babies' umbilical cords, screened
them to find stem cells, infected the cells with a gene-carrying virus, then
four days later put the engineered cells back into the infants.

   The newborns also were given an enzyme treatment, called PEG-ADA, to help
boost immunity while the gene therapy experiment was beginning. The combined
treatments gave them normal immunity, where ordinarily there would have been
none.

   Blaese, at the National Institutes of Health, collaborated with Drs. Donald
Kohn, Robertson Parkman and several colleagues at Children's Hospital in Los
Angeles, and at other research centers. A detailed report on their work appeared
today in the journal Nature Medicine. Inborn immune deficiency is seen about
once in every 250,000 live births in the United States, and ADA-deficiency
accounts for about one fourth of these cases.

   The new work "really shows that you can get cord blood cells from a newborn,
put a gene into them, give them back, and some of them make new blood cells for
at least two years," Kohn said.

   Although it is still too soon to be sure, Blaese said, "there is a reasonable
chance that we might have cured these kids" of the inborn genetic disease.
"Within the next year we'll have a much better idea" of whether the implanted,
engineered cells last long enough to be considered a cure.

   The uncertainty concerns whether the engineered cells will last a lifetime,
and whether they make enough of the missing enzyme - "adenosine deaminase" - to
keep the children healthy. To find out, Blaese said, the boys are being weaned
off the PEG-ADA enzyme treatment; doses have been reduced by half in the past
nine months, without problems.

   In the past, such children had to live for years in large plastic bubbles -
sterile isolation chambers - to keep infections at bay. They can now sometimes
be saved with bone marrow transplants, or with PEG-ADA at a cost of $250,000 a
year, and perhaps eventually with gene therapy.

   The work announced Monday is the second gene therapy experiment aimed at the
rare genetic disorder. Five years ago Blaese, Dr. Kenneth Culver, W.  French
Anderson and their colleagues isolated white blood cells from two young Ohio
girls, infected the cells with an engineered virus, and then put the altered
cells back into the girls.

   The results were similar: near-normal immunity was restored and the girls
have remained healthy. But it is still not clear if the gene treatment or the
drug, PEG-ADA, should get the credit.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995


                             120 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                      October 3, 1995 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. 7E

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: ENGINEERING BETTER PEOPLE LONG WAY OFF

BYLINE: Ron Haybron

BODY:

   One of my friends has a prescription to cure society's many ills. "We don't
need more laws," he claims. "We need better people." And he believes this could
be accomplished through genetic engineering.

   Although we are already using gene manipulation to produce healthier people,
there's no telling how far these emerging techniques will take us toward my
friend's ambitious goal, which is still a long way off.

   When researchers discovered that defective genes cause cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy, there was considerable optimism that an effective treatment
or even a cure for these disorders was possible. Medical researchers have been
working hard to find ways to put this knowledge to work, bringing hope to
sufferers of these and other gene-related disorders.

   However, attempts to replace the defective genes with properly working copies
has not proven effective in alleviating symptoms of either disorder. Some
replacement of flawed genes with normal ones occurred in the treated patient's
cells, but not enough to accomplish a measurable, beneficial result.

   Despite this setback, researchers will continue their efforts because the
stakes are so high. Gene therapy research is proceeding for a number of
diseases, including several kinds of cancer, AIDS, rheumatoid arthritis,
vascular diseases and hemophilia.

   The state of the research is summarized in the September issue of Scientific
American by Dr. W. French Anderson, director of the Gene Therapy Laboratories at
the University of Southern California School of Medicine. He calls this emerging
field a major revolution in human health care.

   Anderson writes, "Delivery of selected genes into a patient's cells can
potentially cure or ease the vast majority of disorders..." He claims more than
4,000 human diseases are due to inheritance of a single defective gene.

   The human genome, the totality of genetic information carried in our
chromosomes, contains an estimated 200,000 individual genes. Once a disease has
been linked to a specific defective gene, several methods for inserting a "good
gene" are being developed. The technique used in attempts to treat cystic
fibrosis relies on the ability of viruses to insert their own genetic material
into human cells.

   First, the genetic engineers modify the selected virus to suppress its
ability to cause disease. Then they insert a normal gene needed to replace the
patient's defective one into the virus. Injected into the patient, the treated
viruses "infect" target cells with the good gene, hopefully to begin synthesis
of the missing proteins which cause the genetic disease being treated.

   Another strategy is to remove cells from the patient, insert the desired
genes and return the modified cells to the patient's body. This technique was
used in the first federally approved gene therapy in 1990 which treated a child
suffering from a disease of the immune system. Normal copies of the defective
gene were placed in white cells, which were then returned to the patient's body.
Dr. Anderson reports that, so far, this treatment has been successful and the
patient is doing well. Since the modified blood cells eventually die, repeat
treatments are necessary.

   There is little doubt that we will eventually be able to cure some genetic
disorders, or at least alleviate symptoms. But we must also be realistic.
Although a variety of human health problems result from a single defective gene,
many more are due to the interaction of several genes. Learning how these
"genetic networks" function will not be easy.

   If important aspects of human behavior are genetically determined, one
expects such networks would be involved. And that puts us a long way from
engineering "better people."

   Haybron is an associate professor of physics at Cleveland State University.

COLUMN: Science Notebook

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995


                             121 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    October 2, 1995, Monday, S-TIER EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: JCC TO HOLD SERIES ON DNA

DATELINE: JAMESTOWN

BODY:


   A three-part series focusing on some aspects of the rapidly changing world of
genetic research and DNA will meet from 6:30 8:30 p.m. Tuesday and Oct. 12 and
19 in the campus center of Jamestown Community College.

   The course will incorporate current research, video and class discussion to
explore such topics as cancer, immunity, genetic engineering in plants and
animals, biotechnology and gene therapies.

   R. Theodore Smith, a biology professor, will teach the course. Further
information is available from the college.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995


                             122 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                 October 2, 1995, Monday, Orange County Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 2; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: SCIENCE IN BRIEF:  GENE THERAPY FAILS TO AID DYSTROPHY, FIBROSIS
PATIENTS;
SCIENCE FILE: AN EXPLORATION OF ISSUES AND TRENDS AFFECTING SCIENCE, MEDICINE
AND THE ENVIRONMENT.

BYLINE: From Times staff and wire reports.

BODY:

   Two widely touted gene therapy experiments -- one for muscular dystrophy and
the other for cystic fibrosis -- have failed to help victims of the two
diseases, according to reports in the New England Journal of Medicine. The
muscular dystrophy therapy involves the injection of millions of immature muscle
cells, called myoblasts, into those who have the disabling disease in hopes that
they will fuse with the patient's cells, inserting a healthy gene. A team from
Ohio State University found, however, that the procedure failed to increase
strength in the arms of 12 boys who received it.

   In a separate report, researchers from the University of North Carolina found
that a healthy cystic fibrosis gene contained in a cold virus did not improve
breathing in 12 volunteers. An inflammatory response to the virus prevented
researchers from administering enough of it to be beneficial.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995


                             123 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      OCTOBER 2, 1995 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1979 words

HEADLINE: PENN GENE THERAPY RESEARCHERS TOIL PAST A SETBACK

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   University of Pennsylvania researcher Yiping Yang slid the mouse liver cells
under the microscope. What Yang saw shocked him.

   The new gene therapy drug had stopped working.

   He looked at more cells. There was no trace of drug activity. Nothing.

   This was Vector III, a cold virus genetically engineered to treat or possibly
cure cystic fibrosis.

   It was supposed to work much longer than two previous versions that had also
been jiggered to include the gene that cystic fibrosis patients lack.

   It was supposed to be the drug that would let Penn's Institute for Human Gene
Therapy resume a cystic fibrosis trial on volunteers that had been stalled for
almost a year.

   Cystic fibrosis patients - about 30,000 in the United States alone - were
looking to gene therapy as the ultimate treatment for the disease that would
kill most of them by the age of 30.

   But Vector III had stopped working after only a week or two. It was not
nearly as good as Vector II, which the scientists had postponed testing in
humans because Vector III had looked so much more promising.

   Either they had done something wrong in making the vector or, more ominously,
there was a serious mistake in their theory of how to protect the vector from
being killed by the patient's immune system.

   Yang took a photograph of the liver cells and headed to the office of his
boss, institute director James M. Wilson, to give him the bad news.

   *

   Laboratories throughout the world are struggling to create vectors that can
elude the immune system and cure diseases as varied as cystic fibrosis, cancer
and heart disease.

   Scientists predict that these gene drugs will lead to a revolution in medical
care because they attack disease on the most fundamental level - they repair the
defective or damaged cells involved in disease.

   Effective treatment is still a few years away. But scientists at Penn, which
has one of the most aggressive research programs, are already poised to start
preliminary trials on drugs for many diseases.

   Institute researchers are:

   * Only a month or two away from using gene therapy to treat mesothelioma, a
quickly fatal lung cancer common among shipyard personnel and others who work
around asbestos.

   * Planning to use gene therapy in patients with retinitis pigmentosa, a
relentless hereditary disease that slowly narrows the vision of its victims
until most are blind by the age of 40. Bennett was able to slow progression of
the disease in baby mice by injecting a gene therapy drug into their eyes.

   * Preparing to give gene therapy to patients with glioma, a quickly lethal
brain cancer.

   * Moving through the lengthy local and federal regulatory processes to treat
patients with ornithine-transcarbamylase deficiency, a rare, hereditary liver
disease that kills many infants within hours of eating their first meal. Studies
of animals with a similar disease showed that gene therapy could protect them.

   * Laying the groundwork for developing a drug against the inherited muscle-
wasting disease Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

   Though the genes to treat each disease are different, all would be delivered
to the patients' cells in the same way - carried inside adenoviruses, like the
ill-fated Vector III.

   *

   Wilson was seated at the computer in his tiny office when Yang came in with
the color photograph.

   "The E2 deletion isn't working," Yang said, referring to Vector III.

   "What?" Wilson asked in surprise.

   Yang presented the photograph. Obviously the vector had been detected and
destroyed by the animal's immune system.

   Wilson couldn't understand this. The immune system is activated by the
protein made by the viruses' own genes. But Yang had removed 15 percent of the
crucial E2 gene, which, according to a report from another laboratory, should
have been enough to prevent protein production.

   However, analysis by one of Yang's colleagues, post-doctoral fellow Matthew
Weitzman, showed that Vector III was still making protein.

   Wilson was shaken by Yang's report.

   It crushed any hopes that Vector III would be the first gene therapy drug
effective against a major inherited disease.

   Now Wilson faced the bleak prospects of resuming the human trials with Vector
II, even though the immune system would probably knock it out in a matter of
weeks.

   Or, he could make another vector. But how?

   *

   As word of Penn's burgeoning Institute for Human Gene Therapy spread through
science and government circles, Wilson was beginning to attract money and
interest from all over the world.

   The new field of gene therapy was blossoming, and science delegations from
Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Japan came to Philadelphia to tour
the institute.

   Last month, Wilson was visited by representatives of a European foundation.
He thought they were just another foreign delegation on a fact-finding mission.
But when the hour-long meeting was over, he was asked to submit a proposal for a
grant.

   That night at midnight, sitting in bed, he wrote a three-page proposal in
longhand for a vector development project that would cost $20 million over five
years. He presented the proposal at a breakfast meeting the next day, was told
it looked interesting, and was promised a decision on funding within the month.

   He spent every spare moment in the ensuing days writing a more detailed
proposal - it ran more than 100 typewritten pages - which he FedExed to Europe.

   A few weeks earlier, Biogen Inc., a Cambridge, Mass., biotech company,
invested $38 million in Genovo, a firm Wilson had founded to develop vectors
that would be available to all researchers and ultimately used for commercial
products.

   At about the same time, the National Institutes of Health gave Wilson's
institute a five-year commitment of $10 million as one of three national gene
vector laboratories. The lab would make therapeutic viruses for investigators
throughout the nation.

   Everyone was counting on Wilson to deliver vectors that could survive the
onslaught of the immune system. That was turning out to be very difficult.

   *

   As Wilson wrestled with what to do about Vector III, Yang was looking for
other ways to outfox the immune system.

   Some scientists had been speculating that E3 - one of four "early" genes in
the adenovirus (so called because they're involved in early phases of the virus
reproducing itself) - protected the virus from being detected by the human
immune system.

   Yang and Wilson had no idea whether the E3 gene could protect their
adenovirus because the E3 gene doesn't work without the E1 gene. And the E1 gene
had been removed because it theoretically could cause cancer.

   The E1 gene is a "promoter" for E3 - a bit like the ignition system in a car.
Genes can't start functioning without them.

   Because of E1's cancer-causing potential, Wilson and Yang didn't dare restore
it, but without it they couldn't take advantage of the virus' natural defenses.

   Wilson had an idea.

   He told Yang to take out that part of the E3 gene that provides the
protection and combine it with a promoter taken from another virus. This way
they could get E3's protection without risking cancer.

   Yang set about assembling such a gene.

   *

   Though Wilson's lab and others were moving ahead with remarkable speed, the
field of gene therapy was coming under increasingly critical scrutiny.

   In August, the journal Science issued a special report in which it said "all
is not well in the world of gene therapy."

   It pointed out that no one has been cured of any disease by gene therapy and
that researchers are running into formidable problems, casting doubt on
prospects soon for breakthroughs.

   In July, under the headline "In the Rush Toward Gene Therapy, Some See a High
Risk of Failure," the New York Times quoted scientists cautioning that
researchers were moving too quickly into human trials. They warned of poor and
hastily planned research products and a push by commercial interests to "jump on
the bandwagon."

   This concern is shared by Harold Varmus, director of the National Institutes
of Health, which is spending $200 million a year on gene therapy research.

   Varmus appointed a committee of scientists with no financial ties to gene
therapy research to propose changes in the way this work is funded.

   Wilson agrees with much of the criticism, saying that both commercial and
academic interests are engaging in hype.

   He said business leaders encourage investors with optimistic reports about
cures being just over the horizon. And, he said, academic institutions, seeking
the prestige of being on a research frontier, are quick to try gene therapy on
humans without enough research to prepare for the trials and understand the
results.

   Still, there has been a tidal wave of discoveries in the last few years - the
most disturbing of which is how gene therapy can be stopped by the immune
system.

   *

   Taking 2 percent of the E3 gene, Yang connected it to a promoter taken from a
monkey virus and put it into Vector I, the original adenovirus tested on eight
cystic fibrosis volunteers last year and in 1993.

   Those trials had been suspended in the summer of 1994, when animal studies
showed that Vector II was better at eluding the immune system.

   Yang tested the new version of Vector I in the liver cells of mice. Yang's E3
gene didn't protect it. The mouse immune system destroyed the vector just as
quickly as before.

   Wilson told Yang to try it again, but this time on lung cells, since these
were the cells being treated in the cystic fibrosis trials. Wilson suspected
that infected liver cells might be more vulnerable to destruction than lung
cells because they're more exposed to the immune system's white blood cells.
Yang had chosen liver cells to test first because they're easier to work with.

   Yang was skeptical. He treated the lung cells, then 28 days later checked to
see if the vector was still working. It was. Yang checked again a week later.
The vector was working. The enhanced E3 gene was protecting Vector I
from the mouse's immune system.

   Wilson was elated. Now he knew what to do about the failed Vector III. He
would "march up and down" the front end of the adenovirus and change every one
of its early genes. He'd take the best of all the experimental vectors and
create Vector IV.

   He would replace the adenovirus' E1 gene with the crucial cystic fibrosis
gene.

   He would modify the E2 gene so it would make less immune-stimulating protein.

   Based on Yang's latest work, he would connect a fragment of the E3 gene with
a "promoter" from another virus.

   And to make the vector even safer, he would put everything into an adenovirus
developed by one of Yang's colleagues, Quang-ping Gao. Gao's virus lacked the E4
gene, which Wilson didn't think was essential.

   *

   As summer was ending, Wilson huddled with the half-dozen scientists in his
laboratory working on the cystic fibrosis project.

   Dressed in a business shirt and tie and munching ice from a plastic cup, he
listened as his staff brought him up to date on their projects. Then he told
them he had news. Vector III had failed; they would be working with a new virus,
Vector IV. It was being made ready by Yang.

   It was time to start preparing to resume cystic fibrosis trials on people, a
process so complicated, costly and time-consuming that it would take several
months.

   Turning to Cynthia Robinson, clinical director of the cystic fibrosis
program, he asked if patients were available. She said she had 55 potential
volunteers, twice as many as they had the year before. The trials would require
14 volunteers, who would get succeeding larger doses of Vector IV.

   Much still had to be done, but the most difficult obstacle had been
surmounted.

   They had found an effective virus, or so they hoped - Vector IV. As far as
Wilson was concerned, it was the Cadillac of vectors.

NOTES: THE QUEST: SEEKING AN ULTIMATE CURE
One in a series of occasional articles on gene therapy research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND DIAGRAM;

PHOTO (2)
1. Yiping Yang, a researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, takes samples
of a virus. He is among the scientists working on a yet another version of a
drug that would treat or cure cystic fibrosis. (The Philadelphia Inquirer
, VICKI VALERIO)
2. Yiping Yang studies genes on a computer in his lab. He began assembling a
new gene based on what had not worked in the past. (The Philadelphia Inquirer
, VICKI VALERIO)
DIAGRAM (1)
1. Bioengineering a Virus For Gene Therapy (The Philadelphia Inquirer)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             124 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                  September 28, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: 2 studies raise questions about gene therapy method

SOURCE: NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE

BODY:


   Two rigorous studies of gene therapy have found that it failed to help
patients with cystic fibrosis or Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

   The diseases are caused by mutated genes, and in each case the hope was that
if a good gene could be added to the cells that lack it, it might correct the
defect in those cells.

   Scientists say that the discouraging results of the two studies show that it
is time to rethink the method they are using for gene therapy, which attempts to
cure diseases by adding genes to cells. But, they emphasize, they remain
confident that gene therapy eventually will transform medicine.

   Results from both studies were published yesterday in the New England Journal
of Medicine.

   The cystic fibrosis study had its origins in laboratory experiments
indicating that it might be possible to cure the disease. Patients with cystic
fibrosis inherit a faulty gene that is used to shuttle water and salt back and
forth across cell membranes. As a result, thick secretions build up in the lung
and elsewhere, and patients eventually die of lung disease.

   Several years ago, investigators discovered that an inactivated cold virus
could add normal genes to cultured cells of patients with cystic fibrosis. In
these laboratory studies, the gene therapy corrected the cells' defect.

   But in the study reported yesterday, Dr. Richard C. Boucher of the University
of North Carolina and his colleagues found that the method did not work in
patients.

   In a study of 12 patients, the researchers used inactivated cold viruses to
add genes to cells that line the nose. But, they report, the nasal cells took up
so few genes that the therapy had no effect.

   The muscular dystrophy study, by Dr. Arthur H.M. Burghes of Ohio State
University and his colleagues, asked whether healthy muscle cells could provide
genes to correct the genetic defect that causes muscles to waste away in
patients with the disease. The idea was to exploit a peculiar feature of muscle
cells.

   Unlike other cells, which line up side by side like bricks in a wall, muscle
cells fuse to become giant cells. So, the notion was, if normal muscle cells
were injected into the muscles of patients with muscular dystrophy, the normal
cells might fuse with the diseased cells, providing the gene, called dystrophin,
that the diseased cells lack.

   The method worked in animals, but the investigators found it did not work in
human patients.

   Gene therapy researchers said they are disheartened but not discouraged.

   One, Dr. Louis Kunkel of Harvard Medical School, said that for now "we have
to go back to the drawing board and find out why it didn't work."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             125 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                  September 28, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Biotech's time is now

BYLINE: MARK GUIDERA, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Maryland is poised to become a national leader in the biotechnology industry,
and emerging fields of bioscience research -- such as aquaculture and
agriculture -- hold promise for new job growth in the decade ahead.

   That was the consensus of several keynote speakers at a conference yesterday
for Maryland's biotechnology industry, government and academic leaders. The
one-day conference in Ellicott City drew about 180 people.

   The conference was organized so that leaders in Maryland's fast emerging
biotechnology industry could share ideas about the problems they face and the
direction that the industry should be headed.

   Dr. Rita Colwell, president of the University of Maryland Biotechnology
Institute, was among the speakers, and she painted an upbeat vision of
biotechnology's future in the state.

   "There are exciting times ahead," said Dr. Colwell. "Maryland will be the
biotech leader on the Atlantic. We will soon overtake Massachusetts."

   She also predicted that the long years of research by many of Maryland's
biotechnology companies would soon yield amazing new research findings -- and
products.

   And those findings and products should help stir up badly needed equity from
investors and even the state, she said.

   Dr. Colwell also said she expected new ventures -- and jobs -- to be created
in Maryland by several under-explored, but promising fields of biotechnology
that the state has targeted for research support.

   Among them are the environment, electronics, agriculture and aquaculture.

   Another keynote speaker yesterday, Maryanna Henkart, acting chair for the
National Science Technology Council's biotechnology research committee, also
said these fields had been targeted by the federal government as holding strong
potential for research and product growth in the decade ahead.

   Biotechnology research, Ms. Henkart noted, already has shown some successes
in the field of agriculture, producing insect-resistant cotton and
disease-resistant potatoes.

   Meanwhile, Dr. Colwell said she thought Maryland's biotechnology industry
could find potential in research and product development for another food
source: marine life.

   With worldwide demand for fish as a food source rising while marine
populations are in a state of decline, aquaculture could be a gold mine for
biotechnology, she said.

   "Gene-therapy research, which numerous Maryland biotech companies are engaged
in, also should soon yield ground-breaking findings," Dr. Colwell said.

   "That will further bolster Maryland's biotechnology industry, as companies
and academic institutions form partnerships globally to market and manufacture
products.

   "Gene therapy is clearly the next great wave for medicine. It's how diseases
will be conquered in the near future."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MICHAEL LUTZKY: SUN STAFF, Bright future: Dr. Rita Colwell,
president of the University of Maryland Biotechnology Institute, closes the
First Annual Maryland Bioscience Forum with an optimistic outlook.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             126 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   September 28, 1995, Thursday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: For two afflictions, gene therapy fails;
Medical Notebook

BYLINE: By Richard A. Knox, Globe Staff

BODY:

    Gene therapy for cystic fibrosis and Duchenne's muscular dystrophy gets a
setback in two studies published today.

   One approach to cystic fibrosis that was thought promising - a nasal spray
containing a gene that is defective in patients, packaged within an inactivated
cold virus - failed to correct defective cells in the nasal lining of 12
patients with the genetic disease.

   Cystic fibrosis, which affects about 30,000 Americans and is progressive and
generally fatal, is caused by lack a gene that regulates cells' salt and water
balance. One effect is that thick mucus clogs victims' airways.

   Unfortunately, the genetically engineered virus in the nasal spray infected
fewer than 1 percent of the target cells, according to to researchers from the
universities of North Carolina and Pennsylvania. When higher doses of the
gene-bearing virus were tried, the nasal tissues became inflamed.

   In the muscular dystrophy experiment, scientists at Ohio State University and
a research institute in Wales injected the biceps of a dozen young muscular
dystrophy patients monthly for six months with healthy muscle cells taken from
human donors. Earlier animal studies showed such donor cells could fuse with
defective cells, possibly transferring a gene that patients lack.

   But tests of muscle strength failed to show improvement in any patient, even
though 10 percent of one boy's tissue contained muscle fibers positive for
dystrophin, the protein missing in muscular dystrophy. One in every 3,500 boys
born in this country has Duchenne's muscular dystrophy; it progressively weakens
muscles and usually kills its victims at an early age.

   Dr. Jeffrey M. Leiden of the University of Chicago acknowledged
disappointment in a commentary that accompanies the studies in today's New
England Journal of Medicine. "The current tools are quite crude," Leiden said,
but "despite some pitfalls, the promise of gene therapy is intact."

1,600 newborns in US infected with HIV

    About 1,600 US newborns a year are infected with the human immunodeficiency
virus, which causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, according to a new
estimate in this week's Journal of the American Medical Association.

   Theoretically, this number could be reduced to 400 per year if all the
HIV-infected women who give birth each year were to receive treatment during
pregnancy with zidovudine, or AZT, which has been shown to prevent transmission
of HIV from mother to fetus. But many women will not be reached and treated in
time.

   Since 1978, when HIV began to seep into the US population, about 15,000
children have been born with the viral infection, say researchers from the US
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

   Of these, about 5,330 have developed AIDS and 2,680 have died from the
disease. So the backlog of still-invisible children's AIDS cases is nearly
10,000.

Harvard doctors enjoy home-court advantage

    The home court advantage belongs not only to sports teams. Even among
doctors, the home team has a leg up in spirited games of what's-the-diagnosis,
according to a study in this week's New England Journal of Medicine.

   The authors, an "away" team from the University of California at San
Francisco, decided to test their impression that Harvard Medical School doctors
"win" more often than visitors when matching their diagnostic wits in case
conferences at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

   These puzzle matches, involving patients esoteric symptoms, have been
presented in the New England Journal for 71 years.

   The Californians found, the Harvard home team came up with the right
diagnosis a remarkable 82 percent of the time. Visiting doctors scored only 74
percent. And when MGH physicians were scored separately from their teammates
from other Harvard teaching hospitals, they scored 95 percent.

   "Could it be possible that, like the teams chosen to play against the Harlem
Globetrotters in exhibition games, the non-MGH discussants are purposely
selected because they are second-rate?" the authors wondered.

   They quickly dismissed any such unsportsmanlike possibility in favor of some
"intangible" home-court advantage akin to "the leprechaun living on the basket's
rim" in the old Boston Garden who had been said to tip the balance in the
Celtics' favor when the Lakers came to play. "Or at least used to," they noted.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             127 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                   September 28, 1995 Thursday SECOND EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Failed testing on humans a gene therapy setback

BYLINE: By Michael Lasalandra

BODY:

   The failure of promising genetic treatments for two inherited diseases is a
serious setback for gene therapy which so far has worked well in the laboratory
but not on patients.

   The disappointing reports, published in today's New England Journal of
Medicine, showed the gene treatments failed to help patients with muscular
dystrophy and cystic fibrosis.

   In both trials, researchers tried to reverse inherited diseases by giving
victims the healthy genes they were born without. They were among the first
trials of gene therapy on humans.

   The results "underscore some of the difficulties involved in translating gene
therapy from the bench to the bedside," said Dr. Jeffrey M. Leiden of the
University of Chicago, in an editorial.

   Leiden said the sobering results may cause some to question gene therapy, but
said he remains optimistic.

   "Despite some pitfalls, the promise of gene therapy is intact," he said. In
fact, more than 100 other human experiments are under way in efforts to fix a
variety of both inherited and acquired illnesses, including cancer and heart
trouble.

   In one of today's studies, doctors tried a gene transfer to treat 12 cystic
fibrosis patients.

   In the other, a technique known as myoblast transfer was tried to treat 12
patients with muscular dystropy.

   The basic premise of gene therapy is to replace a defective gene with a
normal one. The experiments follow much-heralded breakthroughs in which
scientists identified the flawed genes.

   But the two studies showed it isn't as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Still, Dr. Robert Schwartz, deputy editor of the journal, said it is too soon
to say gene therapy is a bust.

   "These are among the first attempts to use this technology," he said.
"Obviously, it is disappointing that it didn't work on the first try, but it
reflects the state of the art. To get this very complicated kind of treatment to
work is going to take a lot. We are years away."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             128 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                   September 28, 1995, Thursday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: QUICK CURE FOR GENETIC DEFECTS ELUDES RESEARCHERS

BYLINE: DANIEL Q. HANEY; Associated Press

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:


   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most commonly inherited lethal diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon they could cure the diseases by
replacing bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it won't be that easy. Although some healthy genes
were transferred, the therapy did patients little good.

   But proponents caution against gloom, saying a quick cure is too much to
expect in a field that is only five years old.

   Indeed, more than 100 other human experiments are under way in efforts to
correct a variety of inherited and acquired illnesses.

   The reports were published in today's issue of the New England Journal of
Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to reverse inherited
illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses -- a
form of the cold virus -- that also contain a good copy of the defective gene.
The idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells
carry in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.

   Dr. James M. Wilson of the University of Pennsylvania, a co-author of the
study, said the strategy may work better in its ultimate target -- the lungs --
than in the nose. Those tests are under way.

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for a different approach
tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which weakens and destroys
the muscles. Muscular dystrophy affects about 75,000 Americans.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells.

   The myoblast transfer by Dr. Jerry R. Mendell and others from Ohio State
University gave no sign after six months of increasing the boys' strength.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1995


                             129 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

            September 28, 1995, THURSDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy Fails Against Two Diseases

BYLINE: BY DANIEL Q. HANEY

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   Two promising gene therapy experiments have failed to help victims of cystic
fibrosis and muscular dystrophy, researchers report.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest that it won't be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes were transferred,
but the gene therapy didn't do the patients any good.

   The disappointing reports were published in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to reverse
inherited illnesses by giving victims healthy genes they were born without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.

   To try to reverse it, researchers created weakened adenoviruses -- forms of
the cold virus -- that also contained a good copy of the defective gene. The
idea was to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells
carry in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the adenovirus
approach, believes scientists can fine-tune the virus so it will reliably carry
in the gene.

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene
they lacked.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Dr.
Jerry R. Mendell and others from Ohio State University. After six months, there
was no sign that the injections increased the boys' strength.

GRAPHIC:  ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995


                             130 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)



                          September 28, 1995, Thursday

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL & NATIONAL, Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: CELL TRANSFER RESEARCH HAS MIXED RESULT;
OSU TEAM STUDIES MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY

BYLINE: Mark D. Somerson, Dispatch Medical Reporter

BODY:


   Transferring healthy muscle cells into people with muscular dystrophy does
not improve muscle strength, says an Ohio State University Medical Center study.

   In 1991, a team of OSU doctors began using a type of gene therapy called
myoblast transfer to inject healthy muscle cells into 12 boys with Duchenne's
muscular dystrophy, a hereditary disease that progressively destroys muscles and
generally kills by age 20.

   Healthy muscle cells contain dystrophin, a protein needed for development.

   In previous studies, cultured human muscle cells were efficiently
incorporated into mice following injections into their muscles.

   But the three-year OSU study, published in today's New England Journal of
Medicine, showed that only one patient retained significant dystrophin in his
own muscle. The transfer, however, did not translate into increased muscle
strength.

   Dr. Jerry Mendell, a medical center neurologist and principal investigator
for the study, said yesterday that it's not clear why the one 9-year-old
retained the dystrophin.

   Mendell said all 12 boys, who were 5 to 9 at the time of the study, remain
alive, including Ryan Russell of Hamilton, Ohio. Ryan was 7 when the study
began.

   Normal, regenerating cells were removed from Ryan's brother, Chad, cultured
in a laboratory to get the right number for transfer, then injected into Ryan's
biceps. The cells - a total of 660 million per patient - were injected over six
months.

   After the injections, doctors spent a year analyzing each patient's muscle
tissue to see how much dystrophin was retained and if there was increased
strength.

   ''Our study indicates that myoblast transfer in its current state of
development does not improve strength in patients . . . despite the transfer of
a large number of cells,'' the study says.

   ''However, we also demonstrated that myoblast transfer can be used to deliver
cells capable of fusing with host muscle fibers and expressing donor-derived
dystrophin.''

   Mendell said the future of muscular dystrophy research concerning cell
transfer probably will come from gene therapy.

   ''In the long run, it will work,'' he said. ''I don't know if it's through
gene therapy or myoblast transfer.''

   Another study in today's New England Journal of Medicine outlined research
using gene transfer in treating cystic fibrosis.

   People with the disease carry a genetic flaw that results in chronic
infection and destruction of the lungs. About 30,000 Americans have cystic
fibrosis.

   To try to reverse it, researchers at the University of North Carolina created
a weakened virus that also contained a good copy of the defective gene.

   The idea was to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so the cells
would carry in the needed gene to correct breathing.

   But the results showed that the gene transfer was ''inefficient.''

   In an editorial, the medical journal stated that these ''early trials of gene
therapy'' should be viewed as positive.

   Mendell said he looks forward to more research.

   ''We'll want to switch gears and see what we can accomplish with gene therapy
,'' he said. ''That will take a lot of lab work before we can go to clinical
trials. But we learned something. We had some success.''

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             131 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                September 28, 1995 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: GENE TESTS FAIL TO YIELD CURES TO 2 COMMON, LETHAL DISEASES

BYLINE: Free Press Wire Services

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   BOSTON -- In the early days of genetic engineering, doctors had hoped to cure
cystic fibrosis using a nasal spray or end muscular dystrophy using injections
of normal muscle tissue.

   That hope has now dimmed significantly. Two new studies in today's New
England Journal of Medicine show that those treatments are not effective in
curing, or even significantly relieving, their respective diseases.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal, inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   New reports suggest it won't be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   In the case of cystic fibrosis, where a defective portion of DNA leads to
abnormally thick mucus and lung problems, researchers tried to correct the
problem using a genetically engineered virus introduced into the body through a
nasal spray.

   Dr. Michael Knowles of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and
his colleagues found that less than one percent of the cells that should have
been transformed by the treatment actually were and that the treatment had
little effect.

   In the case of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which causes progressive
weakness as the muscles waste away, Dr. Jerry Mendell of Ohio State University
and his colleagues regularly injected normal muscle cells into one arm of 12
affected boys. Their other arms got injections of a placebo.

   Although the normal cells seemed to fuse successfully with the muscle cells
of the patients, the doctors were unable to see a significant effect after six
months of injections. The strength in both arms was essentially the same.

   In an editorial, Dr. Jeffrey Leiden of the University of Chicago said the
setbacks are "helping define the hurdles that we must overcome in order to
succeed with gene therapy."

   "Despite some pitfalls, there is good reason to be optimistic about the
ultimate success of this treatment," Leiden said.

   ***

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             132 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                   September 28, 1995, Thursday, Home Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 2; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: SCIENCE IN BRIEF:  GENE THERAPY FAILS TO AID DYSTROPHY, FIBROSIS
PATIENTS;
SCIENCE FILE: AN EXPLORATION OF ISSUES AND TRENDS AFFECTING SCIENCE, MEDICINE
AND THE ENVIRONMENT.

BYLINE: From Times staff and wire reports.

BODY:

   Two widely touted gene therapy experiments -- one for muscular dystrophy and
the other for cystic fibrosis -- have failed to help victims of the two
diseases, according to reports in the New England Journal of Medicine. The
muscular dystrophy therapy involves the injection of millions of immature muscle
cells, called myoblasts, into those who have the disabling disease in hopes that
they will fuse with the patient's cells, inserting a healthy gene. A team from
Ohio State University found, however, that the procedure failed to increase
strength in the arms of 12 boys who received it.

   In a separate report, researchers from the University of North Carolina found
that a healthy cystic fibrosis gene contained in a cold virus did not improve
breathing in 12 volunteers. An inflammatory response to the virus prevented
researchers from administering enough of it to be beneficial.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             133 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                       September 28, 1995 Thursday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 6

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy no help to patients in pair of medical experiments

BYLINE: DANIEL HANEY

SOURCE: Associated Press

DATELINE: Boston

BODY:

   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it will not be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. They say that a
quick cure is too much to expect in a field that is only about five years old.

   The disappointing reports were published in Thursday's issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to
reverse inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born
without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses a form
of the cold virus that also contain a good copy of the defective gene. The idea
is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells acquire
the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Michael Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1% of cells lining the
airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that to help patients,
the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.

   Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the adenovirus
approach, says he believes scientists can fine-tune the virus so it will
reliably carry in the gene.

   "It clearly is going to work," he said.

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely related form of the disease
affect about 75,000 Americans.

   Rather than use a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected healthy
muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new cells would
fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene they lacked.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Jerry
Mendell and others from Ohio State University. After six months, there was no
sign the injections increased the boys' strength.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995


                             134 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

               September 28, 1995, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;   Page 24;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy Shows No Benefits in 2 Studies

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

BODY:

   Two rigorous studies of gene therapy have found that it failed to benefit
patients with cystic fibrosis or Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

   The diseases are caused by mutated genes, and in each case the hope was that
if a good gene could be added to cells that lack it, it might correct the defect
in those cells.

    Scientists say that the discouraging results of the two studies show that it
is time to rethink the methods they are using for gene therapy, which attempts
to cure diseases by adding genes to cells. But, they emphasize, they remain
confident that gene therapy will eventually transform medicine.

   Results from both studies are being published today in The New England
Journal of Medicine.

   The cystic fibrosis study had its origins in laboratory experiments
indicating that it might be possible to cure the disease. Patients with cystic
fibrosis inherit a faulty gene that is used to shuttle water and salt back and
forth across cell membranes. As a result, thick secretions build up in the lung
and elsewhere, and patients eventually die of lung disease.

   Several years ago, investigators discovered that an inactivated cold virus
could add normal genes to cultured cells of patients with cystic fibrosis. In
these laboratory studies, the gene therapy corrected the cells' defect.

   But in the study reported today, Dr. Richard C. Boucher of the University of
North Carolina and his colleagues found that the method did not work in
patients.

   In a study of 12 patients, the researchers used inactivated cold viruses to
add genes to cells that line the nose. But, they report, the nasal cells took up
so few genes that the gene therapy had no effect. They said, it was impossible
to simply use more viruses to transfer more genes because the viruses irritated
the patients' noses, causing inflammation and swelling.

   The muscular dystrophy study, by Dr. Arthur H. M. Burghes of Ohio State
University and his colleagues, asked whether healthy muscle cells could provide
genes to correct the genetic defect that causes muscles to waste in patients
with the disease. The idea was to exploit a peculiar feature of muscle cells.
Unlike other cells, which line up side by side like bricks in a wall, muscle
cells fuse to become giant cells. So, the notion was, if normal muscle cells
were injected into the muscles of patients with muscular dystrophy, the normal
cells might fuse with the diseased cells, providing the gene, called dystrophin,
that the diseased cells lack.

   The method worked in animals, but the investigators found it did not work in
patients. Once a month for six months, Dr. Burghes and his colleagues injected
healthy muscle cells into the arm muscles of 12 patients with muscular
dystrophy. Four patients began making low levels of dystrophin; the others made
none. And no patient showed any increase in muscle strength as a result of the
therapy.

   Gene therapy researchers said they are disheartened but not discouraged.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, who is
actively testing gene therapy for cystic fibrosis, said the results for that
disease show merely that "it is not a slam dunk." He added that "heart
transplants didn't work the first time either." But, he said, eventually, "gene
therapy is going to work."

   Dr. Louis Kunkel of Harvard Medical School, whose studies in mice indicated
that muscle injections might cure muscular dystrophy, also said he was not ready
to give up. For now, he said, "we have to go back to the drawing board and find
out why it didn't work."

   Dr. Jeffrey M. Leiden of the University of Chicago, who wrote an editorial
that accompanied the two papers, said that the reports are not a death knell for
gene therapy but instead are a call to reassess the methods being used and
perhaps to focus on diseases that are easier to treat.

   "Not only is it not over yet, but it's really just the beginning," Dr. Leiden
said. He said that with the extraordinary promise of gene therapy, "people, with
good reason, have high expectations." But now, he said, "we all have to step
back and remember how young a field this is."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995


                             135 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                          September 28, 1995 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. E04

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: PAIR OF FAILURES DIM HOPES FOR CURES IN GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: DANIEL Q. HANEY, The Associated Press <

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   Thursday, September 28, 1995 PAIR OF FAILURES DIM HOPES FOR CURES IN GENE
THERAPY

   Summary: Researchers caution against gloom since the results of two
promising experiments prove not to be a total bust

   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that cures soon would result: just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it won't be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. They say a  quick
cure is too much to expect in a field that is only about 5 years old.

   Indeed, more than 100 other human experiments are under way in efforts to
correct a variety of both inherited and acquired illnesses, including AIDS,
cancer and heart trouble.

   The disappointing reports were published in Thursday's issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to
reverse inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born
without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses -- a
form of the cold virus -- that also contain a good copy of the defective gene.
The idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells
carry in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the
victims' noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that  to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more
efficient.

   Dr. James M. Wilson of the University of Pennsylvania, a co-author of the
study, said the strategy may work better in its ultimate target -- the lungs  --
than it does in the nose. Those experiments are under way.

   Nevertheless, he said, ``this is a heads-up for a potential problem that
nobody wants to minimize.''

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the adenovirus
approach, believes scientists can fine tune the virus so it reliably will  carry
in the gene.

   ``It clearly is going to work,'' he said. ``It's frustrating for everyone,
including the families of kids with this disease, because we feel we are on  the
verge of a quantum leap. The question is how to do it the best way. It  just
takes time.''

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely related form of the disease
affect about 75,000 Americans.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene
they lacked.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Dr.
Jerry R. Mendell and others from Ohio State University. After six months, no
sign emerged that the injections increased the boys' strength.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             136 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 28, 1995, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy cures disappoint

BYLINE: Daniel Q. Haney, The Associated Press

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:


   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it won't be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. They say that a
quick cure is too much to expect in a field that is only about 5 years old.

   The disappointing reports were published in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to reverse
inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses -- a
form of the cold virus -- that also contain a good copy of the defective gene.
The idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells
carry in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes.

   An entirely different approach was tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular
dystrophy, which gradually weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely
related form of the disease affect about 75,000 Americans.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene
they lacked.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Dr.
Jerry R. Mendell and others from Ohio State University. After six months, there
was no sign the injections increased the boys' strength.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             137 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                    September 28, 1995 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY FAILS IN TESTS AGAINST 2 DREADED DISEASES

BYLINE: By DANIEL Q. HANEY; ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. Indeed, more than
100 other human experiments are under way in efforts to correct a variety of
both inherited and acquired illnesses, including AIDS, cancer and heart trouble.

   The disappointing reports were published in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses - a form
of the cold virus - that also contain a good copy of the defective gene. The
idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells carry
in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the adenovirus
approach, believes scientists can fine-tune the virus so it will reliably carry
in the gene.

   "It clearly is going to work," he said. "It's frustrating for everyone,
including the families of kids with this disease, because we feel we are on the
verge of a quantum leap. The question is how to do it the best way. It just
takes time."

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely related form of the disease
affect about 75,000 Americans.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Dr.
Jerry R. Mendell and others from Ohio State University. After six months, there
was no sign the injections increased the boys' strength.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             138 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 28, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: EXPERIMENTS ON GENES DISAPPOINT RESEARCHERS

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:


   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it won't be as easy as scientists had hoped.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. They say that a
quick cure is too much to expect in a field that is only about five years old.

   Indeed, more than 100 other human experiments are under way in efforts to
correct a variety of both inherited and acquired illnesses, including AIDS,
cancer and heart trouble.

   The disappointing reports were published in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to reverse
inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses - a form
of the cold virus - that also contain a good copy of the defective gene. The
idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells carry
in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Dr. Michael R. Knowles and colleagues found that fewer than 1 percent of
cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They estimate that to
help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100 times more efficient.
Muscular Dystrophy Tests

   Experts are not optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely related form of the disease
affect about 75,000 Americans.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene
they lacked.

   The experimental treatment is called myoblast transfer. After six months,
there was no sign the injections increased the boys' strength.

   "This finding, coupled with other previous work, basically tells us this just
is not producing therapeutic benefit," said Dr. Donald Wood of the Muscular
Dystrophy Association.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995


                             139 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                  September 28, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Quiz star ill

BYLINE: A Tribune Wire Report

BODY:


   HARTFORD, Conn. - Charles Van Doren, the boy wonder whose fall from grace
during the TV game-show scandal of the 1950s was depicted in the movie "Quiz
Show," was in critical condition Wednesday after collapsing at a gas station.

   Van Doren, 69, was discovered bleeding from the nose and ears as he lay
beside his car Monday.

   A member of a distinguished academic family, Van Doren won $ 129,000 on the
TV quiz show "21" and became a national celebrity before admitting at a
congressional hearing that he had been given the answers in advance.      -
Therapy set back  BOSTON - In a setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts
to fix nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis
and muscular dystrophy.

   The disappointing reports were published in today's issue of the New England
Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to reverse
inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born without.

     - Hospital must pay  HOUSTON - A jury has ordered a hospital to pay $ 12.7
million to a woman whose son suffered brain damage after a nurse injected her
with a labor-inducing drug even though she had already started labor.

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: BRIEF; THE NATION

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1995


                             140 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       September 28, 1995 Thursday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: MD, CYSTIC FIBROSIS GENE THERAPIES DISAPPOINTING

BYLINE: By DANIEL Q. HANEY AP science writer

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   In a sobering setback for gene therapy, two promising attempts to fix
nature's inborn mistakes have failed to help victims of cystic fibrosis and
muscular dystrophy.

   Scientists in recent years have found the genetic flaws that cause both
conditions. They are among the most common lethal inherited diseases, and the
discoveries led to speculation that soon there would be cures: Just replace the
bad genes with good ones.

   The new reports suggest it won't be that easy.

   Neither experiment was a complete bust. Some healthy genes actually were
transferred. But the gene therapy came nowhere close to doing the patients any
good.

   Proponents of this approach caution against gloom, however. They say that a
quick cure is too much to expect in a field that is only about 5 years old.

   Indeed, more than 100 human experiments are under way in efforts to correct a
variety of inherited and acquired illnesses, including AIDS, cancer and heart
trouble.

   The disappointing reports were published in Thursday's issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine. In both experiments, researchers attempted to
reverse inherited illnesses by giving victims the healthy genes they were born
without.

   People with cystic fibrosis carry a genetic flaw that results in thick lung
secretions. This mucus harbors infections that eventually destroy the lungs.
About 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   To try to reverse it, researchers have created weakened adenoviruses, a form
of the cold virus, that also contain a good copy of the defective gene.  The
idea is to let the virus infect the cells in the airways so that the cells carry
in the needed gene.

   Researchers from the University of North Carolina tried the approach on 12
volunteers with mild to moderate cystic fibrosis. They tested it on the victims'
noses, which have cells identical to ones in the lungs.

   Michael Knowles, a physician, and his colleagues found that fewer than 1
percent of cells lining the airways accepted the transplanted genes. They
estimate that to help victims, the gene transfer would have to be 10 to 100
times more efficient.

   James Wilson of the University of Pennsylvania, a physician and co-author of
the study, said the strategy may work better in its ultimate target, the lungs,
than it does in the nose. Those experiments are under way.

   Nevertheless, he said, "this is a heads-up for a potential problem that
nobody wants to minimize."

   Physician Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital, who helped pioneer the
adenovirus approach, believes scientists can fine-tune the virus so it will
reliably carry in the gene.

   "It clearly is going to work," he said. "It's frustrating for everyone,
including the families of kids with this disease, because we feel we are on the
verge of a quantum leap. The question is how to do it the best way. It just
takes time."

   Experts seem less optimistic about the prospects for an entirely different
approach tried on 12 boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, which gradually
weakens and destroys the muscles. It and a closely related form of the disease
affect about 75,000 Americans.

   Instead of using a virus to replace a defective gene, doctors injected
healthy muscle cells into the volunteers' biceps. The hope was that the new
cells would fuse with the victims' own muscle cells, giving them the good gene
they lacked.

   The experimental treatment, called myoblast transfer, was conducted by Jerry
Mendell and other physicians from Ohio State University.

   After six months, there was no sign the injections increased the boys'
strength.

   "This finding, coupled with other previous work, basically tells us this just
is not producing therapeutic benefit," said Donald Wood of the Muscular
Dystrophy Association. "We don't believe myoblast transfer has been developed
enough to continue work in patients."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995


                             141 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                  September 28, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Deciphering genetic code // Unsuccessful trials lead to progress

BYLINE: Doug Levy

BODY:

    Two early trials of gene therapy to cure inherited diseases did not work,
but scientists say the results are not setbacks.

   The studies in today's New England Journal of Medicine reveal flaws in gene
therapy techniques used to treat cystic fibrosis, one of the most common
inherited illnesses, and Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, a debilitating inherited
muscle disease.

   "It would have been nice to have hit a home run on the first pitch, but
that's not the way it usually is," says Dr. Michael Knowles of the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

   Knowles and Dr. Richard Boucher successfully used a weakened cold virus to
get normal genes into the nasal linings of CF patients. But it wasn't enough to
fix the CF defect.

   "It takes a while to get it right," says Boucher. "We did get gene transfer.
What we learned is we need to be 10- or 100-fold better at it."

   In a separate study, led by Dr. Jerry Mendell of Ohio State University,
healthy muscle cells injected into boys with muscular dystrophy did not prompt
the production of the key muscle protein they need.

   More than 100 trials of gene therapy techniques are under way for everything
from cancers to AIDS to heart disease.

   "It gives us a heads-up" about what needs to be improved, says Dr. James
Wilson of the University of Pennsylvania, who is testing whether genes could be
inserted into the lungs of CF patients.

   "There is good reason to be optimistic about the ultimate success of this
treatment," says Dr. Jeffrey Leiden of the University of Chicago. "The results
of these early clinical trials should . . . not be viewed negatively, but
instead as reflecting a healthy scientific process and thus helping define the
hurdles that we must overcome in order to succeed with gene therapy."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1995


                             142 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                  September 27, 1995, Wednesday, ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: HEALTH WATCH, Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH WATCH;
MIND AND BODY;
Cancer Society focus is women

BYLINE: Marla Jo Brickman; STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   LaMar S. McGinnis Jr. is this year's president of the American Cancer
Society, which has its national headquarters in Atlanta. He also has a private
general surgery practice and is medical director of the cancer center at DeKalb
Medical Center. He spoke with staff writer Marla Jo Brickman about cancer
issues.

Q: How did you get involved with the American Cancer Society?

   A: My entry to the cancer society was through the side door. I began to do a
lot of different things. I ran professional education programs for the Georgia
division for many years. In the national organization, I had a variety of jobs.
I was the chairman for the Unproven Methods Committee.

Q: What are your feelings on alternative methods of therapy?

   A: There is a fine line between quackery and potentially good methods. We
know that cancer patients, probably over 50 percent of cancer patients, seek
other therapy. Our concern in that regard is, if they do that, then don't
abandon conventional methods, methods of therapies that have merit. Don't give
those up for something that is not proven, and don't get into some form of
therapy that might be harmful. That is the whole reason for the existence of the
ACS, to try to find a cure for cancer, so anything that has potential merit, we
are interested in, but we believe in the scientific method.

Q: What does the president do?

   A: The president is the national spokesperson for the cancer society. It does
take about 50 percent of my time . . . 20 percent to 25 percent of that I
probably spend in Washington.

Q: What are your goals for your tenure as president?

   A: I dedicated the year to women and cancer. I became very concerned that
women were frustrated with what they viewed as a lack of progress in the
treatment of cancers of women. In my heart, the cancer society was working as
hard as we could. We needed to make that more evident to the population.

   Q: What are your feelings about the newer therapies, such as gene therapy
being explored as cancer treatments?

   A: I am so excited about what the next century holds in cancer therapy and
prevention. The future of cancer therapy is in the genes . . . in genetic
therapy, not only in treatment but in prevention. The future is in our youthful
researchers. . . . ACS has the largest research program outside of the federal
government, greater than $ 100 million a year. We are very proud of the
accomplishments of our research program. There are 27 Nobel laureates that we
funded.

Q: What are the other goals you have for the cancer society?

   A: I want to establish the cancer society as the leading repository for
cancer information for the public and make use of all communications technology
that's available now and into the next century. . . . That's the big thing
today, that there is rarely one way to treat cancer. There is a variety of
options. We want to give state-of-the art information.

Q: What advice do you have for the public regarding cancer?

   A: Respond sensibly to the information we have available today - it's
unlikely that there will be a quick, take-a-pill prevention or cure for cancer.
. . . I cannot emphasize enough the importance of the relationship of tobacco
and cancer.

Q: How is the cancer society targeting youth?

   A: We are devoting a major part of our efforts to youth. We have a
comprehensive school health program that is to educate children under age 12
regarding adverse effects of tobacco. We have had for years the Great American
Smokeout. Our focus has been on getting adults to stop for one day, and that's
important in that out of that group a very few will make the decision to stop
smoking altogether. We are changing the focus of the smokeout and prevention
efforts to youth-oriented.

   Q: Do you and the cancer society agree with the idea of smoke-free buildings?

   A: Absolutely for smoke-free. We don't ever want to infringe on adults'
rights to do what they want, but it's because of the known harmful effects of
sidestream smoke. The science is in on that, and our recommendations are based
on science. If trends continue, cancer will be the leading cause of death in
this country in the next century.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mug shot of Dr. LaMar S. McGinnis Jr.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995


                             143 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    SEPTEMBER 25, 1995 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: TRACKING THE GENES TO CONQUER DIABETES SCIENTISTS SEEK A CAUSE, OR
PROTECTOR, TO DOOM AN ANCIENT DISEASE.

BYLINE: Edward Colimore, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   The medical researchers are closing in day by day, like detectives on the
trail of an elusive criminal. Five years ago, they followed their suspect into a
microscopic world, to part of a single chromosome.

   Then, six months ago, while looking for more clues, they walked across the
culprit's neighborhood, gene by gene.

   Now, the search is door to door, say researchers at the Coriell Institute for
Medical Research in Camden, who are hunting for the gene or genes on Chromosome
6 that protect people from developing diabetes.

   They're also trying to determine how an altered form of this gene makes
people more susceptible to the disease.

   "We know we're in the right place," said Coriell president David P. Beck,
"but the level of detail is extremely fine. We could find what we're looking for
tomorrow or three years from now."

   If scientists can pinpoint either the "susceptibility" gene that seems to
cause diabetes or the "protective" gene that prevents it, they'll try to develop
gene therapies or drugs to head off the onset of the disease - two huge hurdles,
but goals for the future.

   About two dozen facilities around the world - including Harvard, the
University of Pennsylvania and research sites in England and France - are
hunting for the gene or genes responsible for diabetes.

   Only Coriell and a couple of other institutions are concentrating the search
on a protective gene, Beck said.

   "Technology has moved to the point where we can hope to understand diabetes,"
said Beck. "It's a very, very old disease. You can see references to it in the
ancient Greek medical texts.

   "Here we are thousands of years later and we have insulin - a halfway
technology. It doesn't do anything but treat the symptoms."

   Sophisticated lab equipment, computers, powerful microscopes and DNA analysis
units now allow scientists to dissect and study parts of the human genome. "So a
program like this is timely," said Beck. "It's hot. It's right on target."

   Coriell researcher Marie L. Hoover, who is heading up the diabetes work at
the institute, is convinced she will find the protective gene - and when she
does, "the biggest questions will be: 'What does it do and how does it work?' "

   *

   Diabetes is one of the most common genetic maladies - the leading cause of
kidney transplants, the leading cause of blindness in people ages 30 to 65, and
the fourth leading cause of death by disease.

   About seven million Americans have it. Six million others probably have it -
and go undiagnosed.

   The disease prevents the body from producing its own insulin or utilizing its
insulin, which is necessary for regulating the level of glucose in blood.
Glucose is produced by the digestive system from sugars and starches and is
distributed to muscles and organs.

   "The complications of diabetes are very, very devastating," said Hoover. "If
you can stop the disease or prevent the disease, that's what you want to do -
not just treat it."

   There are two major forms of diabetes, insulin-dependent Type I and non-
insulin-dependent Type II. Type I usually occurs in childhood or adolescence and
causes a lifelong dependence on external sources of insulin. Type II comes later
in life and may often be controlled by diet and exercise.

   Hoover has focused her work on Type I. She said scientists became interested
in studying Chromosome 6 in 1972 when, during the matching process for kidney
transplants, they found that patients with diabetes shared certain genetic
characteristics.

   Five years ago, while looking at the chromosome further, Hoover and other
researchers found what they believed might be a protective gene. Seventy-four of
203 people without diabetes had it. Only six of 266 people with the disease also
had it.

   Hoover looked at the chromosome of those six people in more detail last
spring, expecting "to show that the gene was not protective," she said. "How
could it be, since some diabetics had it too?"

   To her surprise, a closer look at the chemical subunits of DNA showed that
the diabetics did not have the protective gene. Out of 266 diabetics, none had
it. Sixty-nine of 203 people without the disease had the gene.

   "Zero says there's got to be something," said Hoover.

   Then, pointing to a graphic representation of Chromosome 6, she said, "There
has to be something along here . . . something along here."

   *

   Scientists have been attacking diabetes on many fronts, trying to find a
trigger that sets the body against itself.

   Researchers at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), the University of
Miami, University of Florida and other institutions are checking the relatives
of Type I diabetics for the antibodies typically found in the blood before the
onset of the disease.

   The antibodies can signal the immune system's attack on the insulin-
producing Beta cells in the pancreas. If scientists could prevent that immune
system response, they could head off diabetes.

   Lester Baker, director of CHOP's Diabetes Center for Children, who was named
"Clinician of the Year" by the American Diabetes Association last year, said
experimental evidence suggests that giving insulin injections to people at a
high risk for the disease has the potential to halt, slow or delay the
progression of diabetes.

   Giving patients compounds such as insulin and the enzyme glutamate
decarboxylase - in pill form - also can help. University of Florida researchers
have found that these compounds occur naturally in the body and apparently
become targets of the immune response that causes Type I. The pills can cause
the immune system to tolerate the insulin's presence and prevent the disease.

   Baker said the research project began about six months ago and will involve
thousands of patients across the country over the next five years.

   Earlier research, dating back 20 years, focused on suppressing the immune
system with the same drugs used by transplant patients to prevent organ
rejection.

   That approach was abandoned because permanently suppressing the body's
defenses could lead to other serious health problems.

   *

   Genetic work offers another avenue of investigation. Much of the research
thus far has concentrated on finding a susceptibility gene on Chromosome 6 - a
gene that leaves people more likely to get diabetes.

   If someone inherits a copy of the gene from each parent, the risk for the
disease is high, Hoover said. A susceptibility gene from one parent and a
neutral gene from the other makes the risk low. The pairing of a protective gene
and a susceptibility gene makes the chance of getting diabetes nil.

   Richard Spielman, professor of genetics at the University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, said some evidence suggests that genes for diabetes
susceptibility also exist on other chromosomes, including Chromosome 11.

   What's more, he said, the correlation between the genes and the onset of the
disease isn't perfect. "Not everyone who gets the (susceptibility) genes also
gets the disease," he said. "You can get the same genes as someone who gets the
disease - like an identical twin of a diabetic - but never develop Type I
diabetes."

   Spielman and other researchers are now "systematically looking at all the
chromosomes to find places - in addition to Chromosomes 6 and 11 - where there
might be genes that contribute to susceptibility and resistance."

   The study, for the National Institutes of Health, began in 1993 and also is
being conducted at the University of Chicago and University of Washington in
Seattle.

   While many types of research continue simultaneously, Hoover and other
scientists continue to pin much of their hope on Chromosome 6.

   *

   At Coriell, Hoover is now "walking" across the short arm of the chromosome.

   Somewhere on this human blueprint resembling a pricing bar-code is a gene or
genes that encode for protein molecules on the surface of cells. It makes them
recognizable to the immune system.

   In people without diabetes, the cells of the immune system "see" the Beta
cells in the pancreas as part of the body.

   "The surface of the (Beta) cell is labeled," said Beck. "So the cells of the
immune system say, 'You're OK.' "

   In diabetics, the Beta cells are not recognizable.

   "The name badge has somehow been smudged," said Beck. "The cells of the
immune system think they're foreign and attack."

   Without Beta cells to produce insulin, patients must inject the substance.
Insulin has been in use since it was discovered in 1921.

   "If we can figure out how the genes work," said Hoover, "maybe a gene therapy
is finding someone who is potentially susceptible and giving them the gene that
would keep them from getting the disease. You might put it in the bone marrow."

   Or, Hoover said, a drug therapy may be found to simply turn on a gene that
wasn't functioning.

   She is studying the genes of 468 people from the Dallas-Fort Worth area and
Pittsburgh.

   "We're chromosome-walking, looking at big chunks," she said. "If this was
history, it would be like looking at the years 1812 and 1850, but not knowing
what happened in between. Once we find the overlapping pieces, we find the steps
in between."

   Beck said Coriell is "looking everywhere. Nobody but God can tell what the
right path is."
This story is also available on the Franklin Institute's World Wide Web site,
with hyperlinks to related topics: Http://sln.fi.edu

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND CHART;

PHOTO (1)
1. Coriell researcher Marie L. Hoover is convinced she will find a protective
gene. (The Philadelphia Inquirer, APRIL SAUL)
CHART (1)
1. The Risk Of Diabetes (SOURCE: Cornell Institute for Medical Research; The
Philadelphia Inquirer)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             144 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1995 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                        September 24, 1995 Sunday, THIRD

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: MIND-BODY MEDICINE SUSPECT

BODY:

   New Orleans

   You did a great disservice to your readers by publishing, without critique,
the Aug. 24 article by Mary Rourke, "Mind-body medicine," which would have us
believe that there is significant scientific evidence that prayer can heal. No
one, I think, will deny that a positive attitude can help, or that stress
management is not useful, but there is little scientific evidence that prayer
has an effect beyond that of improving our state of mind.

   The experiment described in the beginning of the article, in which fungus is
prayed over, comes from Dr. Dossey's book "Healing Words." His book relies
mostly on parapsychology and New Age literature, not scientific journals. In
fact, Dr. Dossey admits that only "true believers" can duplicate the results of
these experiments, a very unscientific statement.

   Another physician, Dr. Gary Posner, points out in his review of "Healing
Words" for Skeptical Inquirer (Fall, 1994) that "when skeptics are invited in by
'true believers' simply to review and tighten their notoriously lax controls,
their positive results almost invariably evaporate."

   Christians may be interested in knowing that Dr. Dossey's idea of prayer is
different from most. He claims prayer creates a mind-over-matter effect directed
at the thing being prayed for. The power comes from the mind of the person doing
the praying; God need not apply.

   He also believes in voodoo and distant hexing as two examples of the human
mind having an effect on the well-being of others.

   As for Dr. Dale Matthews' claim that "traditional medicine is coming to its
limits," I doubt that many medical researchers would agree. What we don't know
about the human body is far greater than what we do know. Just the recent
advances in gene therapy and manipulation point out how much we still have to
learn, and that's just one area of medical research.

   The danger of uncritically accepting these claims about prayer and
spiritually lies in the possibility that sick people may forgo the traditional
medical treatments for spiritual ones and be the worse for it. You owe it to
your readers to be more careful with topics that can affect our health.

   Leo G. Matthews

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1995


                             145 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                   SEPTEMBER 23, 1995 Saturday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: SCHOLARS TO EXPLORE LINK BETWEEN CRIME, GENES / THE TOPIC AROUSES
STRONG EMOTIONS. RESEARCHERS DEFEND THEIR WORK. CRITICS FEAR IT WILL LEAD TO
GENETIC ENGINEERING. /

BYLINE: Lori Montgomery, INQUIRER WASHINGTON BUREAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Are some children born to be bad? Can there be a "treatment" to block them
from murder?

   The explosive questions are back. The more explosive answer, in some
quarters, is yes. And the renewed debate is sending chills down the spines of
those who fear it will bring a Brave New World of mind control to the children
of America's violent inner cities.

   Simmering for decades, the issue owes its latest revival to a University of
Maryland conference that opened yesterday.

   Sponsored in part by a $100,000 grant from the Center for Human Genome
Research within the National Institutes of Health, the conference for the first
time will gather scholars from a wide array of disciplines to discuss the
ethical implications of current research that is seeking a genetic foundation
for violence and other criminal behavior.

   Authors of the research and their supporters say it is hardly a sinister
pursuit.

   "Almost every day you're hearing about a gene for this and a gene for that.
If you can have a gene for obesity, it certainly can become acceptable that a
gene can be involved in violent behavior," said David Comings, a medical
geneticist at the City of Hope Medical Center in Duarte, Calif.

   And, like the famous fat gene, genes that code for violence are unlikely to
suggest a quick-fix pill.

   "All the genetic research done to date would suggest that if you wanted to go
out and do something in the next year to have a concrete dent on crime and
violence, you would do something to change the environment," said Gregory Carey,
a behavioral geneticist at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Carey last
year authored a review of studies into the heritability of violence for the
National Academy of Sciences.

   "I would be surprised if there were any biological remedy," Carey said.

   Critics, however, get the willies whenever anyone tries to make the vast
panoply of human behavior dance on the head of a gene. For them, the research
raises the specter of Nazi eugenics, the science of breeding people - or
eliminating them - in quest of a superior human race.

   More to the point, critics say, what do you do if you find a gene that
predisposes its owner toward violence?

   "Suppose you do find out that 20 percent of criminal behavior is due to
genes. What would you do?" asked Garland Allen, a historian of science at
Washington University in St. Louis.

   "There's no technology for doing gene therapy" - that is, replacing the
defective gene, Allen said. "That's pie in the sky. So right now, the only thing
you can do is say, well, we'll drug people."

   A growing body of research shows that criminals often possess a slightly
altered brain chemistry. Genes appear to combine with traumatic life experience
to reset brain chemicals, and the most promising avenue of treatment is drugs.

   "What other solution do you want?" asked Ray Jeffery, a criminologist at
Florida State University in Tallahassee. "There are issues out there that are
biological." With effective drug treatment, "perhaps we can stop building
prisons and start building prevention programs."

   But wary critics foresee more frightening possibilities: Compulsory genetic
screening. Involuntary sedation. Forced sterilization of people who bear the
genetic stain.

   And who is the likely target? At a time when a best-selling book argues that
black Americans are born with genes that make them less intelligent than whites,
when blacks are arrested for nearly half of all violent crimes while making up
only 12 percent of the national population, when black men are eight times more
likely to die by violence than white men, it's easy to see who might be nervous.

   "The whole mood of the country is we've been too kind to black people, and
it's time to cut off their money and get tough with them," said Maryland
psychiatrist Peter Breggin, a perennial thorn in the side of researchers seeking
medical solutions to inconvenient behaviors.

   "To hold a conference on the issue of genetics and crime is really to hold a
conference, from the American viewpoint, on the genetics of young black men and
crime. The African American community should be here en masse" in protest,
Breggin said.

   Three years ago, black leaders protested original plans for the conference,
and it was scrapped. Organizers of this weekend's conference intend to
scrutinize genetic research into violence rather than promote it.

   Conference organizer David Wasserman says the session is necessary precisely
because the idea of genetic violence research arouses such passions.

   "In general, the subject of genetics and behavior is something that was
conceived under eugenic auspices and has never succeeded in totally freeing
itself from that legacy. In turn-of-the-century America, where crime is an
absolute obsession, it becomes even more of a threatening and disturbing
subject," Wasserman said.

   "That's why we always thought it was terribly important that the expectations
and fears provoked become a subject for public discussion."

   The conference is funded by the Ethical, Legal and Social Implications branch
of the Human Genome Center, which was created to examine troubling issues that
arise as research delves ever more deeply into the basic building blocks of
human life. One of those issues is the potential for genetic information to be
misused, and the conference was funded to explore that possibility.

   The conference will forthrightly explore fears that genetic research could
"support racial stereotypes and justify repressive social policies."

   Add the fact that Wasserman has been forced repeatedly to assure the public
that no one expects to find a "murder gene," and opponents are far more
comfortable with the new conference.

   But the research itself still stirs anger, particularly among those who see
it as another attempt to find something wrong with poor black children instead
of eliminating the stressful, hopeless, squalid conditions in which many of them
live. If the chicken is violence, by this argument, then the egg is poverty and
racism, not genes.

   "One of the things I disagree with profoundly is the fact that we don't know
what's causing this violence. That's baloney," said Ronald Walters, chairman of
the political science department at Howard University in Washington, and a
leading opponent of the first conference.

   And giving children drugs to treat "aggression," he said, "involves messing
with people's basic human rights. How do you know that a kid is going to use
that aggression to rob a bank or to save the nation, become the next Colin
Powell?"

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             146 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          September 23, 1995 Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: 2 biotechs raise $60.6 million

BYLINE: ELIZABETH DOUGLASS, Staff Writer, Bloomberg Business News contributed to
this report.

BODY:

   Two San Diego gene therapy companies have returned to the public stock
market, raising a combined $60.6 million by selling shares amid renewed investor
interest in biotechnology companies. Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. raised nearly
$30 million yesterday, selling 2.5 million shares to public investors for $8.12
1/2 each and selling 1.17 million shares to a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary.

   The Johnson & Johnson deal, which raised about $9.5 million, had been
announced previously by both companies. Johnson & Johnson Development Corp. may
buy an additional 61,539 shares at the same price, provided the companies
receive government approval, Amylin said.

   All three sales would produce a net gain of $28.9 million, the company said.
Vical Inc. sold 2.5 million shares for $12.25 each on Thursday, raising $30.6
million in new funds. The two local companies will use the proceeds to fund
research and development, clinical studies and administrative costs. While Vical
and Amylin sold their shares, traders pushed both companies' stock prices below
their offering mark.

   Vical took the biggest hit, closing at $12, down $1.25, or roughly 10
percent.

   Amylin closed at $7.75, down 75 cents. While one biotechnology stock analyst
suggested that Vical's stock fell because of the resulting stock dilution,
another suggested that both companies' stock prices were affected by yesterday's
overall market slump. "If you look around, most of the biotechs (were) down
(yesterday)," said Pacific Growth Equities analyst Tom Dietz.

   "I think it's just the market." John Wong, an analyst who follows Amylin for
Van Kasper & Co., said he was not discouraged by Amylin's small price dip. "The
stock was a little weak," Wong said.

   "But they've got funding for their clinical trials, so I think they're in
very good fiscal shape." Amylin's relationship with Johnson & Johnson includes
the $9.5 million stock deal, plus a collaborative agreement with Johnson &
Johnson's LifeScan Inc. subsidiary to develop pramlintide, which could help
diabetics control their glucose levels. The two offerings come on the heels of a
recent stock sale by another local biotech company, Agouron Pharmaceuticals
Inc., which sold 3 million shares at $28 each earlier this month. Analysts say
the spate of local offerings reflects this summer's biotech rebound on Wall
Street and renewed optimism among investors that the nation's biotech companies
will produce profitable drugs. "There have been some very strong (biotech) deals
lately," said Gregory B. Brown, an analyst with Vector Securities International
near Chicago.

   "I think the biotech market is quite healthy."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             147 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 23, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: CONFERENCE ASKS: IS CRIME GENETIC IN ORIGIN?; BLACKS, OTHER CRITICS
ARE WARY OF QUESTION

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   ARE SOME PEOPLE born to be bad? Can there be a "treatment" to prevent them
from committing murder?

   The explosive questions are back. The more explosive answer, in some
quarters, is yes. And the renewed debate is sending chills down the spines of
those who fear it will bring a Brave New World of mind-control to the children
of America's violent inner cities.

   Amid criticism from some scholars and black leaders, researchers met for a
long-delayed conference this weekend on whether people can be genetically
inclined toward crime. The conference, which was originally scheduled for 1992
but postponed after an uproar, also will examine possible screening for genetic
markers to indicate criminal tendencies.

   The three-day conference, organized by the University of Maryland, began
Friday at the private Aspen Institute in Queenstown, Md. Scholars from a wide
array of disciplines discussed the ethical implications of research seeking a
genetic basis for violence.

   Dr. Alvin F. Poussaint, a Harvard professor of psychiatry and a black civil
rights activist, said blacks should be wary.

   "There's a history going way back to slavery of white Americans and Europeans
saying that blacks are in some way inferior genetically," he said. "There's such
a strong chance of misuse that we have to be extremely cautious."

   Some academics question whether the research would divert funding from
education, unemployment and other causes of crime. One researcher is criticizing
a study that proposes inmates be tested for levels of a brain chemical that
supposedly predicts violent behavior.

   Authors of the research and their supporters say it is hardly a sinister
pursuit.

   "Almost every day you're hearing about a gene for this and a gene for that.
If you can have a gene for obesity, it certainly can become acceptable that a
gene can be involved in violent behavior," said David Comings, a medical
geneticist at the City of Hope Medical Center in Duarte, Calif.

   And, like the famous fat gene, genes that code for violence are unlikely to
suggest a quick-fix pill to sedate children in the ghetto.

   "All the genetic research done to date would suggest that if you wanted to go
out and do something in the next year to have a concrete dent on crime and
violence, you would do something to change the environment," said Gregory Carey,
a behavioral geneticist at the University of Colorado.

   "I would be surprised if there were any biological remedy," Carey said.

   Critics, however, get the willies whenever anyone tries to make the vast
panoply of human behavior dance on the head of a gene. For them, the research
raises the specter of Nazi eugenics, the science of breeding people - or
eliminating them - in quest of a superior race.

   More to the point, critics say, what do you do if you find a gene that
predisposes its owner toward violence?

   "Suppose you do find out that 20 percent of criminal behavior is due to
genes. What would you do?" asked Garland Allen, a historian of science at
Washington University in St. Louis.

   "There's no technology for doing gene therapy" - that is, replacing the
defective gene. "That's pie in the sky," Allen said. "So right now, the only
thing you can do is say, 'Well, we'll drug people. We'll give them drugs.' "

   In a sense, Allen is right. A growing body of research shows that criminals
often possess a slightly altered brain chemistry. Genes appear to combine with
traumatic life experience to reset brain chemicals, and the most promising
avenue of treatment is drugs.

   "What other solution do you want?" asked Ray Jeffery, a criminologist at
Florida State University. "There are issues out there that are biological." With
effective drug treatment, "perhaps we can stop building prisons and start
building prevention programs."

   But wary critics foresee far more frightening possibilities: compulsory
genetic screening, involuntary sedation and forced sterilization of people who
carry the genetic stain.

   And who is the likely target? At a time when a best-selling book argues that
blacks are born with genes that make them less intelligent, when blacks are
arrested for almost half of all violent crimes while making up only 12 percent
of the population, when black men are eight times more likely to die by violence
than white men, it's easy to see who might be nervous.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1995


                             148 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                 September 22, 1995 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: CRIME CONFERENCE ON EXPLOSIVE GROUND GENETICS STUDIES RAISE RACIAL AND
ETHICAL QUESTIONS

BYLINE: LORI MONTGOMERY Free Press Washington Staff

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON -- Are some kids born to be bad? Is there a treatment to stop them
from killing?

   The explosive questions are back. The more explosive answer, in some
quarters, is yes. And the debate is once again sending chills down the spines of
those who fear it will bring a Brave New World of mind control to the children
of violent neighborhoods.

   Simmering for decades, the issue owes its latest revival to a University of
Maryland conference opening today on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay about an
hour east of Washington, D.C.

   Sponsored in part by a $100,000 grant from the National Institutes of Health,
the conference for the first time will assemble scholars from many disciplines
to discuss the ethical implications of research seeking a genetic foundation for
violence and criminal behavior.

   Authors of the research and their advocates say it is hardly a sinister
pursuit.

   "Almost every day you're hearing about a gene for this and a gene for that.
If you can have a gene for obesity, it certainly can become acceptable that a
gene can be involved in violent behavior," said David Comings, a geneticist at
City of Hope Medical Center in Duarte, Calif.

   But, like the heralded fat gene, genes that code for violence are unlikely to
suggest a quick-fix pill to sedate potential troublemakers.

   "All the genetic research done to date would suggest that if you wanted to go
out and do something in the next year to have a concrete dent on crime and
violence, you would do something to change the environment," said Gregory Carey,
a behavioral geneticist at the University of Colorado at Boulder, who last year
wrote a review of studies into the genetics of violence for the National Academy
of Sciences.

   "I would be surprised if there were any biological remedy," Carey said.

   Critics get the willies whenever anyone tries to make the vast panoply of
human behavior dance on the head of a gene. For them, the research raises the
specter of Nazi Germany's experiments in eugenics, the science of breeding
people -- or eliminating them -- in the quest for a superior race.

   What do you do if you find a gene that predisposes its owner toward violence?
detractors ask.

   "Suppose you do find out that 20 percent of criminal behavior is due to
genes. What would you do?" asked Garland Allen, a historian of science at
Washington University in St. Louis.

   "There's no technology for doing gene therapy" -- that is, replacing the
defective gene. "So right now," Allen said, "the only thing you can do is say,
well, we'll drug people. We'll give them drugs."

   In a sense, Allen has already been proven right. A growing body of research
shows that criminals often possess a slightly altered brain chemistry. Genes
appear to combine with traumatic life experience to reset brain chemicals, and
the most promising treatment is drugs.

   Comings, the geneticist, offers a more familiar example. He uses medication
to treat children with attention deficit disorder, which is believed to have a
genetic basis. Children with the disorder, Comings said, are four times more
likely to use illegal drugs and far more likely to get arrested than other kids.

   If they are identified early and given the right pills, "their grades pick up
and they calm down and they do great," Comings said.

   "What other solution do you want?" asks Ray Jeffery, a criminologist at
Florida State University in Tallahassee. "There are issues out there that are
biological." With effective drug treatment, "perhaps we can stop building
prisons and start building prevention programs."

   But wary people foresee far more frightening possibilities: Compulsory
genetic screening. Involuntary sedation. Forced sterilization of people who bear
the genetic stain.

   Ripe for a conspiracy theory

   And who is the likely target? At a time when a best-selling book argues that
black Americans are born with genes that make them less intelligent than whites,
when blacks are arrested for nearly half of all violent crimes while
constituting only 12 percent of the population, when black men are eight times
more likely to die by violence than white men, it's easy to see who might be
nervous.

   "The whole mood of the country is we've been too kind to black people and
it's time to cut off their money and get tough with them," said Maryland
psychiatrist Peter Breggin, a perennial thorn in the side of researchers.

   "To hold a conference on the issue of genetics and crime is really to hold a
conference, from the American viewpoint, on the genetics of young black men and
crime. The African- American community should be here en masse" to protest,
Breggin said.

   Three years ago, black leaders were on the case, and plans for a conference
were scrapped. The meeting was the victim of terrible timing.

   A few months earlier, Frederick Goodwin had been discussing a Bush
administration offensive against the causes of violence. Called the Federal
Violence Initiative, the idea was to launch an unprecedented effort to identify
kids at risk for committing mayhem and provide therapy to prevent it.

   As director of the federal Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health
Administration, Goodwin was to head the initiative. But during a meeting of the
National Mental Health Advisory Council, Goodwin began talking about certain
monkey populations in which males kill other males to obtain females, with whom
they then engage in copious sex.

   Calling these male monkeys "hyperaggressive" and "hypersexual," Goodwin mused
that, "Maybe it isn't just a careless use of the word when people call certain
areas of certain cities jungles." Then he threw in the idea that perhaps
"genetic factors" could mark kids who are especially prone to violence.

   Fiery backlash

   In the firestorm that followed, Rep. John Conyers, D- Mich., and other
members of the Congressional Black Caucus demanded Goodwin's head. He was
reassigned and later left the government.

   The Violence Initiative was abandoned, but some government studies into
violence continue. Precisely what they are is unclear. Federal officials deny
that their scientists are doing any violence research involving genetics. But
Goodwin, now a research director at George Washington University in Washington,
conceded in a New Yorker magazine article in March that the Violence Initiative
likely would have employed drug therapy.

   Amid escalating charges of racism came the University of Maryland conference.
Nervous federal officials pulled its funding.

   Conference organizer David Wasserman fought back and federal funding was
restored. Wasserman says the meeting is necessary precisely because the idea of
research on genetics and violence arouses such passions.

   "In general, the subject of genetics and behavior is something that was
conceived under eugenic auspices and has never succeeded in totally freeing
itself from that legacy. In turn-of-the-century America, where crime is an
absolute obsession, it becomes even more of a threatening and disturbing
subject," Wasserman said.

   "That's why we always thought it was terribly important that the expectations
and fears provoked become a subject for public discussion."

   Indeed, the conference is funded by the ethical, legal and social
implications branch of the NIH Center for Human Genome Research, which was
created to examine troubling issues that arise as research delves more deeply
into the basic building blocks of human life.

   One of those issues is the potential for genetics information to be misused,
and the conference was funded to explore that possibility.

   "I think they're making all efforts to have as broad a representation at the
meeting as possible," said Elizabeth Thomson, acting chief of the genome
center's ethical branch. "Hopefully we'll have some output that will be useful."

   A open, inclusive discussion

   Wasserman has made some changes in the conference agenda since 1992. The
first time around, for example, he planned to leave the incendiary issue of race
alone. This conference, however, will forthrightly explore fears that genetic
research could "support racial stereotypes and justify repressive social
policies."

   In addition, Wasserman repeatedly has assured the public that no one expects
to find a "murder gene." Psychiatrist Breggin and other opponents say they are
far more comfortable with this conference.

   But the research itself still stirs anger, particularly among those who see
it as another attempt to find something wrong with poor black kids, instead of
eliminating the stressful, hopeless, squalid conditions in which many of them
live.

   "One of the things I disagree with profoundly is the fact that we don't know
what's causing this violence. That's baloney," said Ronald Walters, chairman of
the political science department at Howard University in Washington. He was a
leading opponent of the first conference, but believes that Wasserman is
"sensitized now to some of our concerns."

   And giving kids drugs to treat aggression, he said, "involves messing with
people's basic human rights. How do you know that a kid is going to use that
aggression to rob a bank or to save the nation, become the next Colin Powell?"

   Researchers say such concerns are themselves simplistic. No one is proposing
a drug to treat aggression. And no research shows that a genetic predisposition
toward antisocial behavior will cause a kid to be a monster. The research does
show that environmental factors tend to contribute heavily to the problem.

   "What if you could literally pick a person at birth and put them through a
DNA analyzer and come out with a number for propensity for violence. What would
that mean?" Carey said. "If Johnny Smith has this number, there are a very wide
range of outcomes depending on his environment."

   Carey and Walters are saying basically the same thing: Kids raised in lousy
circumstances are more likely to lead lousy lives.

   The major point of disagreement between proponents and opponents of genetics
research may center on one emotional question: Can science be trusted to do the
right thing by kids whose bodies are also working against them?

   At Issue

   Critics of genetic-based research on violence question what will happen if
scientists someday do find a gene that causes violent behavior.

   They fear such a discovery could spur a call for national genetic testing,
involuntary sedation of children and sterilization of people found to have the
gene.

   And, in an era when black men have been eight times more likely to die
violently than white men, they predict those measures would be aimed primarily
and unfairly at black people.

   ***

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             149 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                September 22, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C;  Page 32;  Column 3;  Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Medical Mystery With the Last Chapter to Come

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

BODY:


   Genes, Blood and Courage
A Boy Called Immortal Sword
By David G. Nathan
276 pages. Belknap Press. $24.95.

   Anybody who as a young person read Paul De Kruif's "Microbe Hunters" knows
just how exciting a medical detective story can be, more exciting in its way
than conventional detective stories. Medical mysteries, after all, are true
stories, and they involve invisible dangers -- microbes, viruses, genetic
accidents -- that kill people like us.

    David G. Nathan, the Robert A. Stranahan Professor of Pediatrics at the
Harvard Medical School, is not a science writer like De Kruif. But he is a
medical practitioner and detective himself, one who has spent nearly 30 years
treating a young man named Dayem Saif, who came to him at the age of 6 with what
seemed to be an incurable and fatal disease of the blood. In "Genes, Blood and
Courage," Dr. Nathan tells Mr. Saif's story. Alongside it, he provides a
scientific history of the efforts to understand, treat and cure the rare blood
disease, known as thalassemia, which in an earlier era would surely have killed
Mr. Saif.

   Dr. Nathan's book has far less dramatic sweep and power than "Microbe
Hunters." His writing is wooden in places, earnest but a touch schoolmarmish.
But if "Genes, Blood and Courage" lacks literary flair, it is nonetheless an
absorbing, clearly told tale of modern science linked to a moving and morally
complex story: of a real person struggling not just to survive but also to
reconcile that exhausting task with the conflicting yearning for a normal life.

   Dr. Nathan begins in 1968, when he first saw Dayem (whose name has been
changed in the doctor's account), brought to Boston from Lisbon by his parents,
who were desperate to save his life. Though he was 6, Dayem, who is of mixed
Syrian-Iranian parentage, had "the stature of an average boy of 2." His labored
breathing could be heard 10 feet away. "His face was terribly misshapen," Dr.
Nathan reports. "An enormous bulging forehead, upper teeth pushed forward by a
swollen upper jaw, and a receding lower jaw gave him the appearance of a highly
cerebral gargoyle."

   Dr. Nathan's diagnosed thalassemia, which is an inherited disease of the
blood common around the Mediterranean and in parts of Africa and Asia. It
results from the failure of "a pair of very important hemoglobin genes" to
produce the red cells that carry oxygen to the tissue. The body, struggling
frantically to produce the cells it needs, enlarges the marrow production spaces
in the bone, causing the skeleton to be as fragile as stem crystal and for the
body to become seriously misshapen. In the acute form that it took in Dayem's
case, the disease in 1968 was untreatable and incurable, resulting inevitably in
painful childhood death.

   Dr. Nathan tells two linked stories. In one he describes his pioneering
treatment of Dayem, which, from the beginning, involved some difficult choices.
A marrow transplant, if successful, would have cured the disease, but Dr. Nathan
ruled that out in Dayem's case because none of his relatives were sufficiently
compatible to be donors. The other choice was a lifetime program of blood
transfusions that would give Dayem his red cells from the outside. But in 1968,
this course inevitably led to such a heavy concentration of iron in the blood
that the patient was poisoned within a few years by the very effort to save him.

   Dr. Nathan's strategy was to keep a half step ahead of Mr. Saif's disease,
keeping him alive long enough for a permanent cure to be developed. This brings
him to the second story he tells: the investigation of the genetic bases of
thalassemia and other diseases of the blood like leukemia. Here he offers the
lay reader a useful short course in genetics and genetic engineering, explaining
various phenomena and processes from protein synthesis to the role of reverse
transcriptase in viral infection. Dr. Nathan's accounts are not always easy to
understand, largely because the matter under discussion is itself technical, but
they should be graspable by most readers endowed with some basic knowledge of
chemistry and biology.

   Along the way, Dr. Nathan touches on other subjects, offering judgments on
matters like race relations and the Vietnam War, for which he shows no special
aptitude. But when he deals with medical ethics and the value to science of such
techniques as fetal tissue research and genetic engineering, Dr. Nathan's
opinions, formed as they are by the real battle with real disease, count for a
great deal.

   His defense of genetic engineering against the well-intentioned opposition it
has created is especially eloquent. He calmly deals with the fears that
reconfigured genes could "leap out of their incubators and act like an Andromeda
strain" by describing the potential medical benefit to Mr. Saif himself. "I
could," Dr. Nathan writes, "even envisage the creation and insertion of a normal
beta globin gene into young patients with beta thalassemia, to cure their
illness once and for all."

   This is not possible yet, which is, most important, a medical disappointment,
but a literary one as well. At one point, Dr. Nathan rather portentously avers:
"If I was to help this young man, and many like him, I would have to be
successful in the second and much slower-moving prong of my pincer attack,"
namely, the development of a genetic therapy to replace Mr. Saif's defective
genes with good ones. Unintentionally, no doubt, he leads the reader to expect
the book to report the development of just such a therapy. But real life is not
a detective story. Mr. Saif, now over 30, still undergoes the painful and
expensive regimen of blood transfusions along with a painful process to
alleviate the iron buildup.

   But he is alive, thanks to Dr. Nathan and many others in the microbe-hunter
tradition. Dr. Nathan predicts that after another decade of hard work, gene
transfer therapy will be available to cure inherited diseases like thalassemia.
Meanwhile, "Genes, Blood and Courage" is a fascinating account of the mileposts
on the long journey that have been reached so far.


GRAPHIC: Photo of David G. Nathan. (Geoff Why/Harvard University Press)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1995


                             150 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           September 22, 1995 Friday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Chiron sets Viagene buyout date

BYLINE: BRUCE V. BIGELOW, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Chiron Corp. said yesterday it will complete its acquisition of San
Diego-based Viagene Inc. on Sept. 29, providing Viagene shareholders approve a
cash-and-stock buyout offer estimated at $120 million. Viagene tentatively
agreed in April to the proposal submitted by Chiron, a burgeoning biotech based
in the East Bay community of Emeryville.

   The deadline for proxy votes cast by Viagene shareholders is today. The
Viagene deal follows Chiron's acquisition of Cetus Corp., a neighboring Bay Area
biotech, in a 1991 merger valued at $660 million. "Chiron is one of the biotech
companies that has seen biotech-to-biotech consolidation as a way of building a
stronger company," said David Stone, a biotechnology analyst for Cowen and Co.
in New York. The success of the Cetus acquisition should provide some comfort to
Viagene, Stone added. Chiron said a lawsuit seeking to block the acquisition
that was filed last spring by a group of Viagene shareholders was not expected
to block consummation of the deal. Chiron already owns about 18 percent of
Viagene's shares. Viagene, like Cetus, is a development-stage biotech that has
not yet shown a profit.

   But Viagene will continue to operate in San Diego as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Chiron, said Kim Kraemer, a Chiron spokeswoman. By contrast,
Chiron folded Cetus into its own organization in the 1991 acquisition. Viagene
has about 160 employees in San Diego, said Jeff Works, Viagene's chief financial
officer. Viagene is "going to go on as much the same organization that they
would have been if they had kept going on their own," Stone said.

   "Yet they have the advantage of having a deep-pocket parent." Although
Viagene's cash needs are significant, the biotech company still had adequate
resources to continue operating, said Paul Boni, an analyst for Mehta and Isaly,
a New York investment firm. "Chiron, when combined with Viagene, will be a major
player in gene therapy," Boni said.

   "There will be some consolidation of intellectual property, and in a way
Chiron was a good match for Viagene.

   They probably would have had to deal with each other at some point anyway."
When terms of the deal were set last April, Boni said it appeared that Chiron
was paying a premium compared to Viagene's stock price. "But by my calculations,
it's a relatively inexpensive price for Chiron," Boni said.

   "Chiron has been estimating this will cost them $120 million, and that
includes all the options out there." Under terms reached last April, Viagene
shareholders could accept either $9 or 0.155 Chiron shares for each Viagene
share. But since April, Chiron's share price has zoomed from $58 to almost $95,
which substantially increased the appeal of the stock over the cash deal. As a
result, Viagene's share price also climbed well above the $9 cash offer, closing
yesterday at $12.25. To address the higher value of Chiron stock, the companies
will allow most investors to trade only 60 percent of their Viagene shares for
Chiron stock.

   They would have to accept $9 each for the rest of their shares.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             151 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           September 19, 1995 Tuesday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Immune plans tests of vaccine in Asia

BYLINE: BRUCE V. BIGELOW, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Immune Response Corp. of Carlsbad said yesterday that it had reached a deal
with a privately held industrial group to conduct clinical tests of its AIDS
vaccine in Thailand and other Asian countries. The biotech company said the
Trinity Medical Group Co. of Bangkok, Thailand, will underwrite a series of
clinical trials that could eventually include 10,000 people infected with HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS. Trinity also will invest up to $15 million for the
purchase of common shares of Immune Response at $15 each.

   Trinity will receive a license for the vaccine, known as the Salk Immunogen,
in Thailand, Burma, Indonesia, Cambodia Singapore, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Malaysia,
Laos and the Philippines. "This is an opportunity for Immune Response to conduct
a very large clinical trial at a very low cost to the company," said Chief
Financial Officer Charles Cashion. Said James McCamant, editor of The Medical
Technology Stock Letter, based in Berkeley: "It's certainly a positive for
Immune Response, because they certainly have gotten stymied in the United
States." McCamant noted that several companies trying to develop an AIDS vaccine
have been talking about doing studies in Thailand, largely because AIDS has
reached epidemic levels among prostitutes and other high-risk populations there.
He noted, however, that it is extremely difficult to keep track of patients in
such high-risk groups. Immune Response shares closed yesterday at $7.75, up
almost 44 cents. Cashion said the Thai Public Health Ministry has approved a
one-year clinical trial of the Salk Immunogen involving about 300 HIV-infected
individuals. Before the study can begin, however, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) must approve the export of the vaccine.

   Cashion said Thailand already has submitted such a request to the FDA. The
company said clinical sites in Thailand are being recruited pending review and
approval of the protocols by each institution. Immune Response said a study
involving another 2,000 patients is planned in Thailand to determine the
effectiveness of the Salk Immunogen in delaying progression of HIV infection to
AIDS. Trinity may also conduct an open-label study involving up to 7,700
HIV-infected individuals.

   All participants would receive the Salk Immunogen. Immune Response said the
clinical program in Thailand is designed to complement clinical trials in the
United States, including a planned Phase 3 study for about 3,000 people infected
with HIV. The biotech is trying to develop several products for the treatment of
HIV and autoimmune diseases and for gene therapy.

   Shares of Immune Response Corp. climbed last week after the company said it
had treated the first patient in the second phase of a clinical trial of a
treatment for psoriasis.

GRAPHIC: 1 CHART; CAPTIONS: RIDING HIGHER (C-2); PHOTOBY: Union-Tribune / JOHN
LAYMAN

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             152 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   September 18, 1995, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
One in an occasional series;
NIH panel to weigh benefits, future of gene therapy spending

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   Ashanthi ""Ashi'' DeSilva was not quite 4 years old when she
became the first person anywhere to receive approved gene
therapy.

   Five years after that effort to fix the defective gene that
caused her life-threatening immune deficiency, Ashi is
thriving - maybe because of the gene therapy, but maybe
because of medication she receives, and maybe for both
reasons.

   That uncertainty illustrates the difficulty researchers face
in assessing and funding the future of gene therapy.

   The problem is part of the ever-present tension between basic
and applied science - in this case between the researcher at
his laboratory bench seeking answers to questions and the
physician seeking cures for desperately ill patients.

   In an era of dwindling resources, Harold Varmus, the Nobel
laureate who now heads the National Institutes of Health, has
nominated a committee to advise him on how much federal money
to spend on gene research and therapy, and how to spend it.

   NIH spending on such projects already has reached an estimated
$ 200 million, Varmus said.

   In his charge to the committee, he noted that while several
projects confirm successful transfer of genes into new cells,
the evidence of therapeutic benefit in humans is less
convincing.

   And while the NIH's recombinant DNA advisory committee has
approved many gene therapy trials, Varmus said, ""it is not
clear whether the NIH and industry are investing in the most
appropriate approaches; choices of disease target, recipient
cell and delivery system are subject to considerable debate. ''

   How that choice between basic science and clinical trials is
resolved will affect research in the United States and around
the world.

   Gene therapy, simply described, means putting a gene into a
cell to correct an inherited defect or to cure a disease or
condition.

   But gene therapy is not simple.

   It presents almost infinite options and decisions to make -
which cell to change; how to put genes into cells; which
diseases to target.

   One of the biggest decisions involves the method of getting
genes to cells.  In gene therapy, the infective properties of a
virus are used to carry beneficial genes to cells.

   In the beginning, the retrovirus seemed ideal.  A retrovirus
carries its genetic code into a cell and incorporates itself
and any genes attached into the cell's genetic code.

   But retroviruses infect only a small percentage of cells -
those that are dividing at the time the virus is introduced.

   Adenoviruses, part of a family that causes colds and other
respiratory illnesses, can infect a much higher percentage of
cells and carry genes into them.

   But most people have been infected with an adenovirus or its
cousin, the adeno-associated virus, and have developed some
immunity to such infections.  That immunity may make many
humans resistant to the potentially beneficial infection of a
virus carrying a therapeutic gene.

   Work with the adeno-associated virus is still so tentative
that its potential is unknown.

   This uncertainty associated with using viruses altered one
scientist's path.

   In the early 1990s, Dr. Fred Ledley was a pediatrician at
Baylor College of Medicine in Houston when his became only the
fourth of all gene therapy protocols to receive federal
approval.

   But his enthusiasm has since waned, and he never put his gene
therapy into practice.

   ""I became skeptical of putting viruses in people,'' he said.  ""I

   thought gene therapy should be as safe as the best in
therapeutics. ''

   Several nonviral approaches to gene therapy are under study,
and that is the driving force behind the biotech company,
GeneMedicine, where Ledley is now medical director.

   Viruses used in gene therapy have yet to prove dangerous in
the more than 600 patients who have received the therapy.  But
the potential danger is unknown.

   Another unknown is which diseases are the best potential
targets for gene therapy.

   Genetic diseases - such as Ashanthi's immune deficiency
-seemed the best prospects at first, but now cancer has taken
the lead.

   Dr. Savio Woo, head of Baylor Center for Gene Therapy, said
cancer is the ideal target because the virus needs to get in
and do its work, but the genetic changes need not persist
forever.

   His brain cancer trial in combination with Baylor head of
neurosurgery Robert Grossman uses an adenovirus to take a
herpes ""suicide'' gene into the cells of a brain cancer.

   A ""suicide gene'' is so named because it causes cancerous cells
to attract a drug that kills them.

   In the Baylor trial, patients receive ganciclovir, an
anti-herpes drug, which seeks out and kills the tumor cells
infected with the ""suicide gene. ''

   Scientists theorize that cell-killing proteins released by
dying cells killnearby tumor cells as part of a ""bystander
effect. ''

   This eliminates that problem of getting the gene-carrying
virus into every cell.

   Earlier this summer, Dr. W.French Anderson discussed the
importance of clinical testing, addressing Varmus and his
committee in a conference room at San Francisco's Sir Francis
Drake Hotel.  In a twist of irony, the room was decorated with
depictions of mythological gryphons - half-lion, half-eagle -
that could themselves be the result of mythical gene transfer
experiments.

   Anderson is one of the doctors who performed the gene therapy
on Ashanthi.  Now at the University of Southern California in
San Diego, he has been an enthusiastic researcher in the field
for years, and he wants to keep the promise of gene therapy
alive.

   ""The way one makes progress in science is to do experiments,''
he told the committee.  ""These are the experiments that have to
be done -the clinical experiments. ''
 Dr. R. Michael Blaese, who also participated in Ashanthi's
therapy, echoed that in an interview.

   ""The public needs to understand that these are experiments.

   Gene therapy is still an experiment in every case.

   ""We tend to think in terms of cure and I don't think that's an
appropriate yardstick.

   ""There are many effective treatments that don't cure people
and yet they make a real difference in their lives.  So we
shouldn't dismiss things as not being cures and not having
value.  All these things are little tiny steps along the road,
and we have a long way to go,'' he said.

   So far, more than 120 such experiments in the United States
have made it past the first federal hurdle, the NIH's
recombinant advisory committee, and more are in the pipeline.

   Anderson predicts that the time will come ""when you can inject
a gene like penicillin. ''

   But before that can occur, scientists in the laboratory must
continue their efforts.  As Dr. David Shine of Baylor said, the
answer may come out of research seemingly unrelated to the
problem.

   Anderson advised Varmus to put the NIH money ""where it will
help the science most. ''

   But neither he nor anyone else in science could predict where
that would be.

   ""None of us has the wisdom to be able to guess right every
time,'' he said.

   ""I could argue for almost every protocol. ''

   At this early stage in the development of gene therapy, Anderson said,
""since we don't know what will work, we must
cast a broad net. ''

   Anderson and Blaese agreed that the treatment of Ashanthi's
immune deficiency seems to have been successful.

   Even though Ashanthi's improvement may have resulted from the
gene therapy, she continues to receive treatments of peg-ADA,
a chemically synthesized version of the agent that their
defective cells lacked at birth.

   ""The reason for not taking Ashanthi off peg-ADA is that even
though we might scientifically think it's all due to the gene
therapy, our responsibility is to the patient. ''

   But researchers who lean toward lab work point to the case as
an example of the limitations of patient studies.  The use of
the peg-ADA makes it difficult to assess the effectiveness of
the gene therapy.

   Even if the gene therapy did work, Ashanthi is not cured.

   She must receive periodic infusions of genetically altered
cells to keep her healthy.

   But Dr. Kenneth Culver, another of Ashanthi's gene doctors,
points out that cure is too much to expect at this point.

   "" Those who based their expectations on these measures will be
disappointed,'' he said.  He predicted that the pace of progress
will be slow, ""undoubtedly too slow for most of us. ''

   In an editorial appearing in this month's issue of the journal
Gene Therapy, he said that research will shift back and forth,
from the laboratory to the patient's bedside and back to the
lab.

   Only in that way, he said, can the potential of gene therapy
be realized.

   The issues before the NIH committee appointed by Varmus are
weighty, and its deliberations have been private.

   Varmus expects a report in December, but in truth, the
questions cannot be answered in dollars and cents or black and
white.

   They are questions of heart and ethics; of ego and altruism
and gut feelings.

   Varmus' decisions will be difficult.  They can, at best, please
only some of those involved in the field.  And they may not
please anyone.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashanthi DeSilva is doing well five years after she received
gene therapy to treat her immune deficiency (p. 10); Carlos Antonio Rios /
Chronicle

TYPE: Series

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995


                             153 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                         September 18, 1995 Monday All

SECTION: Cue & Health Pg. 8

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Hepatitis C study examines mystery
 Center wants to know how virus hides from immune system

BYLINE: JOE MANNING

SOURCE: Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   Researchers at the Blood Center of Southeastern Wisconsin are trying to
unlock the secret of how the hepatitis C virus is able to hide from an infected
person's immune system.

   Finding that secret could in turn help patients when their immune systems
attack the medications and blood components they need to keep them healthy and
alive, said Robert R. Montgomery, director of research at the Blood Center.

   The research will be financed with part of an $8.3 million, five-year grant
awarded to the Blood Center from the National Institutes of Health, Montgomery
said. The main focus of the Blood Center is to provide safe blood products to
the Southeastern Wisconsin community.

   With part of that grant money, center researchers will attempt to learn how
the hepatitis C virus can infect a patient without the patient's immune system
attacking it.

   Montgomery, who will lead the research project, said that if the mechanism
that allows hepatitis C to avoid detection can be discovered, it possibly could
be applied to blood components and drugs that are sometimes attacked by
patients' immune systems.

   For example, some hemophiliacs' immune systems fight Factor VIII, a
blood-clotting component missing in their blood, Montgomery said. Hemophiliacs
must be given Factor VIII frequently to avoid uncontrolled bleeding.

   In about 25% of hemophiliacs, Factor VIII, a transfused protein, looks
"foreign" to their bodies and the immune system attacks and inactivates it,
Montgomery said.

   Also, some patients undergoing surgery develop immune responses to heparin, a
blood thinner, he said. Patients can develop serious bleeding problems, while
others have problems with excess blood clotting.

   Montgomery said the hepatitis C virus would be "dismantled" and components of
it studied to try to learn how it avoids immune system detection, and if that
ability to hide can be applied to vital medications that sometimes trigger
immune responses in patients.

   Other areas of research the grant will finance include:

   Studying how to better preserve and store platelets, tiny structures floating
in the blood that form clots when bleeding occurs.

   Probing why the fetal immune system attacks and destroys platelets in some
fetuses who then die of bleeding into the brain.

   Investigating why the immune systems of some patients attack transfused blood
products such as platelets, red blood cells and white cells. The intent of the
research is to develop ways to reduce the immune response and to treat patients
who have responses to blood products.

   Examining immune responses in which the body's immune system mistakenly
attacks its own tissues.

   Montgomery said the grant would also look at gene therapy as a treatment for
hemophilia and other blood diseases.

GRAPHIC: Photo color
KAREN SHERLOCK
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

   Technician Trudy Holyst does research at the Blood Center of
Southeastern Wisconsin.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995


                             154 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                   September 17, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWPOINTS, Pg. 11F

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: SCIENCE FICTION TURNS TO STUFF OF LIFE FOR BOY WITH BRAIN;
TUMOR

BYLINE: WOODY BAIRD; Associated Press

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, TENN.

BODY:


   Brian Stewart is 20. For five years he has struggled with a brain tumor. It
has stopped growing occasionally for several years, but now it's growing again.

   A seizure earlier this year left him limping and weak and forced him to
withdraw from Southwestern Oklahoma State University.

   He was unable to play softball or tend to the show pigs he raises at home in
Tuttle, Okla.

   "I just try to keep on doing the same things I was doing before, but it's
hard," he said.

   His hope for a normal life lies with an experimental treatment he is
undergoing at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. It relies on a process
called gene-transfer therapy and is an attempt to change the most basic
structure of tumor cells.

   Not that long ago, such treatments were the stuff of science fiction. But
doctors at St. Jude and other research hospitals across the country are trying
to adapt genetic theory to the real world of daily medicine.

   They're looking for ways to attack diseases that otherwise would be
untreatable.

   For patients like Stewart, such research offers a glimmer of hope on an
otherwise foreboding landscape.

   If the treatment doesn't succeed, he expects to be paralyzed on his left side
within six months.

   Ahead, with no treatment, are paralysis and death.

   "It's kind of scary, but there's really not much choice," he said recently
between treatment sessions at St. Jude, an international leader in research on
leukemia and other catastrophic diseases of childhood. He's the first patient in
a study on brain tumor treatment under way at the hospital.

   In his five-year struggle, traditional treatments with chemotherapy,
radiation and surgery haven't worked.

   His parents and friends back home in Tuttle, 20 miles south of Oklahoma City,
realize this latest treatment is a long shot.

   "But he hasn't given up and we can't either," said his mother, Jan.

   While gene transfer is under review in other studies involving some 30 adults
with brain tumors, Stewart is the first "pediatric" patient to undergo the
procedure. His tumor was diagnosed when he was 15.

   St. Jude researchers hope to determine whether children can tolerate the
treatment, which includes a combination of surgery, drugs and the injection of
genetically altered skin cells from mice.

   Dr. Larry Kun, study director, said the research will take about a year and
include six youngsters between the ages of 3 and 20.

   The treatment has shown some signs of effectiveness on adult brain tumors,
Kun said, but final results on those studies aren't yet in.

   With the gene therapy, doctors insert 15 to 20 catheters into a patient's
tumor and inject it with cells infected with a herpes virus.

   In theory, the virus will infect the malignant tumor cells, which are
dividing rapidly, and alter their genetic structure to make them vulnerable to
an anti-viral drug.

   "It's uniquely feasible in the brain because these little virus particles are
picked up only by cells as they divide and grow," Kun said. "The brain, unlike
other areas of the body, doesn't normally grow. So the only cells that are
likely to pick this up are the tumor cells."

GRAPHIC: Brian with nurse.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995


                             155 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     September 17, 1995 Sunday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: A FULL MEDICAL BAG OF TRICKS

BODY:

   Gene therapy celebrates its 10th anniversary with more targets on its radar
screen than enemy kills. Still, it holds promise for curing hereditary diseases,
ensuring the next 10 years should be as fascinating to watch as the first.

   Yet, as scientists tackle the incurable diseases, they must not neglect to
find new ways to battle curable illnesses that are outwitting antibiotics.

   So far, scientists have done well mapping genes and offering tests for a
variety of diseases, including Huntington's and hereditary cancers. However,
translating successful gene-altering experiments in animals to human patients
has been a difficult proposition.

   Ashanthi DeSilva and Cindy Cutshall, who were born without immune systems,
are thrilling exceptions to the rule. Because of gene therapy five years ago,
both Ohio children lead normal lives. Still their treatment is not perfect.
Their corrected genes die off periodically and they still need treatment.

   Yet because of their experience, as problematic as it might be, there is
little doubt that gene therapy will be a major tool in doctors' arsenal within
the next decade. Researchers already are experimenting with an aerosol with
healthy genes for sufferers of cystic fibrosis, a lung disease.

   Meanwhile, as scientists grapple with incurable diseases, curable infections
are making a bid to slip from human control. Recent studies show some bacteria,
common in hospitals, have through mutation whittled their man-made enemies down
to one antibiotic.

   These bacteria are major menaces, contributing to the deaths of thousands of
hospitalized patients a year. Both doctors and drug companies have been
surprised by their resilience. Pharmaceutical companies are just gearing up to
find new drugs, because for years they believed there were enough antibiotics.

   That battle may not be as glamorous as gene therapy, but it demands just as
much attention and as many resources if society is to hold disease at bay.

COLUMN: Editorials

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995


                             156 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     September 15, 1995 Friday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: IT'S ALL IN THE GENES;
SCIENTISTS MARK THE ANNIVERSARY OF PIONEERING THERAPY THEY BELIEVE HAS HELPED
PATIENTS SURVIVE IMMUNE DISEASES

BYLINE: By ULYSSES TORASSA; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

BODY:

   Running on chocolate doughnuts and almost no sleep, gene scientist William
French Anderson five years ago held the hand of a little North Olmsted girl as a
bag of blood cells was emptied into her system in hopes of curing her of a
deadly immune disease.

   Some in the room at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.,
thought he was taking her pulse. But in his own mind, Anderson was holding onto
4-year-old Ashanthi DeSilva for dear life.

   "I thought of every possible thing that could go wrong," Anderson said
earlier this week, before a symposium today in Cleveland marking the anniversary
of the day he helped usher gene therapy into the world. "I thought, 'What if
there was a power outage or an explosion and everything went black?' I wanted to
have my hands physically on the patient. I wanted to know where she was at all
times, no matter what happened.'

   Anderson knew that if anything went wrong, the naysayers he had battled for
years to get permission to do the experimental treatment would prevail, setting
back the advances of gene therapy years, even decades.

   That moment on Sept. 14, 1990, has been likened to the first use of
penicillin, or to the first launch of a space rocket.

   "It was a major milestone, a jump across that yawning gulf," said Jeffrey
Lyon, a journalist and coauthor of "Altered Fates: Gene Therapy and the
Retooling of Human Life."

   "There had been tremendous apprehension not only from the public, but among
the scientists about what would happen when you put genes into people. This was
a tremendous symbolic message and it literally opened the door to dozens and
dozens of subsequent proposals that received the green light from government
regulators.

   "It literally triggered the gene therapy revolution that's unfolding as we
speak."

   Scientists who were skeptical, even hostile, at the time now do human
gene-therapy experiments. Hundreds of people nationwide now receive new genes in
hopes of curing them of everything from cancer to AIDS. The government,
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have poured hundreds of millions of
dollars into the promising new field.

   And Ashanthi, now 9, is doing just fine.

   The anniversary symposium is at Rainbow Babies and Childrens Hospital, where
Ashanthi and the second gene therapy recipient, Cindy Cutshall of Canton, were
patients.

   And it gives the DeSilvas the chance to thank the doctors who they believe
saved their daughter's life.

   "They live in my heart forever, these doctors do," Ashanthi's mother, Van
DeSilva, said this week as she prepared a dinner at her home honoring Anderson,
Michael Blase and Kenneth W. Culver, who led the medical team. "They are the
reason Ashanthi walks this planet."

   Both Ashanthi and Cindy, now 13, were born with an extremely rare immune
disease called ADA disorder. Their bodies do not make a critical enzyme needed
to keep alive disease-fighting T-cells, making them vulnerable to infections.

   An experimental drug called PEG-ADA kept the girls alive, but they remained
sickly and had little energy. Ashanthi was rarely allowed outside the house and
could not play with other children.

   Scientists drew blood from Ashanthi and inserted a healthy gene into the
white blood cells. After the cells had grown outside the body, they were infused
back into Ashanthi. She received several treatments during the first year.

   The researchers saw improvement in her T-cell count within the first three
months, but waited until the one-year anniversary of the experiment to claim
success.

   Ashanthi now plays with her friends, rides her bike, goes to school and the
swimming pool just like any child. She likes science and mathematics and wants
to someday be a doctor so she can help others like she was helped, her mother
said.

   To ensure Ashanthi's safety, she continues to take PEG-ADA. That means while
scientists largely agree that the experiment worked, doctors do not know with
absolute certainty that it was the gene therapy that has made such a difference,
Lyon said. And because the corrected cells eventually die off, Ashanthi
periodically must receive booster treatments.

   But Van DeSilva has no doubt it was the gene therapy that turned her daughter
into a normal child.

   "It has cured her. She is well. She's going to live a long life," she said.

   Anderson, who directs human gene research at the University of Southern
California, said the next step is to find a way to fix a patient's stem cells,
which create all the red and white blood cells in the body. That would
constitute a true "cure" for some genetic diseases.

   And the future is very bright, Anderson said. He predicted that two or three
gene therapies - possibly for some form of cancer and for AIDS - will be on the
market within the next five years. And within 15 to 20 years, he said, there
will be gene therapies for virtually all diseases.

   That contrasts with the fits and starts of gene research in the 1980s when
scientists were frustrated in their efforts to make the concept work. And the
completion of the giant Human Genome Project - a $3 billion effort that is close
to mapping all 100,000 human genes - will boost gene therapy even more,
according to Lyon.

   He said the techniques work because they mimic nature, which has ways of
fixing errant genes. It's when those corrective functions do not work that
diseases crop up.

   "There's no question in my mind that this is the holy grail of medicine. It's
going to write medical treatment in the next century," Lyon said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY SCOTT SHAW / PLAIN DEALER PHOTOGRAPHER; Ashanthi DeSilva, 9,
helped usher in gene therapy five years ago.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1995


                             157 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   September 14, 1995, Thursday, City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Genzyme hopes for big payoff from offering

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

    The current boom in biotechnology stocks may be tested soon as Genzyme Corp.
yesterday announced plans for one of the highest priced stock offerings this
year, one that could bring the firm $ 150 million in cash.

   Based on Genzyme's general division common stock closing price of $ 60 per
share - the highest it has been since January 1992 - the company could raise
more money than any other publicly held biotech company this year, according to
Karen Firestone, portfolio manager of Fidelity Select Biotech and Fidelity
Select Health Care. Genzyme, whose stock rose $ 2.50 per share in active trading
yesterday after the company issued positive research data on its Seprafilm
product for preventing surgical adhesions, plans to sell an 2.5 million new
shares.

   "It always makes sense when shares are priced high to raise more capital and
take advantage of the opportunity and that's what Genzyme and a lot of other
biotechnology companies are doing," said Firestone.

   Nationwide, more than 20 biotech companies have completed initial public
offerings and secondary offerings this year, with another 50 firms submitting
registration statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission of their plans
to sell stock, noted Firestone.

   "This opening in the market for biotech companies is one we want to use so we
don't have to go back to the equity market," said Richard N. Small, chief
financial officer of ImmuLogic Pharmaceutical Corp.

   Yesterday, the Waltham-based developer of drugs to treat allergies and
autoimmune diseases raised $ 25.8 million selling 2.4 million shares at $ 10.75
a share. After expenses and underwriting fees, the company will net $ 24.36
million, noted Small. When the proceeds are added to the company's current $ 64
million in cash and short-term securities, ImmuLogic will have in excess of $ 88
milllion.

   "With the money from this stock sale, we don't fosee having to go back to the
equity market," added Small, noting ImmuLogic anticipates profits from
forthcoming products will fund the company's continued expanson.

   Small said the company's ability to sell additional shares was based on
having multiple products in late stages of clinical trials, a major
pharmaceutical partner - Marion Merrell Dow Inc. of Kansas City, Mo. - which is
funding the development and distribution of the company's Allervax family of
allergy vaccines plus a pipeline of early stage products. The company recently
announced plans to develop drugs to treat multiple sclerosis.

   Genzyme's offering would substantially boost its cash position too. Already
one of the nation's largest biotech companies, Genzyme had $ 86.4 million in
cash and marketable securities and 28.3 million shares as of June 30.

   The company said proceeds from the proposed offering, which needs approval
from securities regulators, will be used to acquire companies, product rights
and distribution rights to promising therapeutics. In addition, the money may
also pay for technology and products now owned by Neozyme II, the off-balance
sheet financing created to fund Genzyme's gene therapy program in cystic
fibrosis.

   In recent years, Genzyme has spent heavily on developing drug products,
acquiring companies and technologies and funding the construction of its $
100-million-plus Allston biomanufacturing facility. That plant will shortly
produce Cerezyme. That's the genetically engineered version of Ceredase, the
successful drug to treat Gaucher's disease, a rare disorder of the spleen an
liver.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995


                             158 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          September 14, 1995 Thursday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Clinical trials help boost 2 biotechs' share prices

BYLINE: UNION-TRIBUNE

BODY:

   The prices of shares in two San Diego-area biotechs climbed yesterday, a day
after each made unrelated announcements about the initiation of clinical trials.
Shares of Vical Inc. of San Diego jumped 13 percent on the Nasdaq market,
closing at $13, up $1.50 in heavy trading.

   The company said Tuesday that it had begun the second phase of clinical tests
of its Allovectin-7 gene therapy compound. Shares of the Carlsbad-based Immune
Response Corp. climbed 10 percent, rising 75 cents on Nasdaq to close at almost
$8.13. The company said Tuesday that it had treated the first patient in the
second phase of its clinical trial of a treatment for psoriasis. The first two
patients in the Allovectin study, both suffering from melanoma, were treated at
the Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson.

   Eventually, 100 cancer patients are expected to enroll in similar studies at
10 treatment centers across the United States and Canada. Under current plans,
Vical's Allovectin compound will be tested on patients with melanoma, lymphoma,
kidney, colorectal and breast cancer.

   A final, pivotal round of clinical trials is expected to follow the current
study. Immune Response said up to 90 individuals with psoriasis are expected to
participate in clinical tests of a compound designed to turn off specific immune
system cells believed to cause psoriasis.

   The centers participating in the trial are at Rutgers University, University
of Michigan, University of California, Irvine, Rockefeller University and the
Psoriasis Research Institute in Palo Alto.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             159 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                  September 13, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: GenVec cancer therapy approved by key panel

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, Sun Staff Writer

BODY:


   Rockville-based GenVec, a bio-tech company, said yesterday it won a key
government agency approval to clinically test a possible new therapy for the
spread of colon cancer to the liver, a common complication of the late stages of
the disease.

   GenVec's clinical trial was approved yesterday by the National Institutes of
Health's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC). All gene therapy trials in
the U.S. that have NIH funding must be approved by the RAC, an NIH spokesman
said.

   GenVec still needs approvals from the directors of the NIH and the Food and
Drug Administration before it can launch the trials. The 2-year-old company is
hoping to receive those approvals in a month.

   GenVec is one of at least a dozen companies that have received approvals for
clinical trials of gene therapy for diseases, though no one has developed a
successful therapy yet, said Dr. John Stevens, an Atlanta-based cancer expert
and vice president for research and grants for the American Cancer Society.

   "There is a great deal of promise with this research, but much yet needs to
be worked out," he said.

   Thomas D'Alonzo, president and chief executive officer of GenVec, said, "We
are in the early stages of this technology and so we don't want to get any
cancer patients' hopes up unnecessarily. But it has powerful potential. The
market could be much larger than just liver and colon cancer."

   In layman's terms, said Mr. D'Alonzo, GenVec has developed a "missile,"
called a vector in medicine, that can find its way with a gene-loaded "warhead"
into a cancer cell. GenVec has selected viruses as the missiles because viruses
have been around for thousands of years and have developed sophisticated ways
for finding their way around the human body, said Mr. D'Alonzo. Such therapy is
called adenovirus-based therapy.

   If given the regulatory green light, GenVec would test its new gene therapy
of colon cancer on 18 patients at the New York Hospital/Cornell Medical Center
and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, both in New York City, and then
study how well it worked. If the results prove promising, GenVec would ask
regulators to approve wider human studies.

   GenVec would profit from the development if the therapy showed strong promise
as an alternative therapy for colon cancer patients.

   The company likely would market it to a large pharmaceutical company that had
the resources to develop and market it for wide use, said Mr. D'Alonzo.

   Dr. Stevens, of the American Cancer Society, said that doctors have had
success treating colon cancer when the disease is diagnosed early.

   However, the prognosis drops considerably if the disease metastasizes to the
liver.

   "The promise of this therapy if they are successful is that it might stop the
cancer from moving around or even cure it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995


                             160 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   September 11, 1995, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
Gene therapy moves slowly in England

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

DATELINE: LONDON

BODY:

   LONDON - In England, research on gene therapy for cancer moves
slowly, advancing by increments in the laboratory with work
applied only hesitantly to patients.

   Dr. Robin Weiss, a researcher at the Institute of Cancer
Research here, set a negative tone upon opening last week's
Second European Conference of Gene Therapy of Cancer.

   ""What can you say about these strategies (to treat cancer)?

   Can you target the genes you want to deliver to all cancer
cells?  My answer is no

   ""But I would like to be proved wrong,'' Weiss said.

   Conference organizer Dr. Farzin Farzaneh at King's College
School of Medicine and Dentistry was more positive, saying his
colleagues had begun gene therapy work after their
counterparts in the United States and have proceeded more
slowly.  In England, fewer than 10 patient studies have been
done on gene therapy.

   Farzaneh said the work targets three crucial areas:

   New ways to deliver genes to a variety of cells - a system
that has been dubbed ""vectors. ''
 Stimulating the immune system to fight a variety of
malignancies, from breast cancer to the devastating melanoma.

   New uses for gene therapy that make more conventional
treatment with anti-cancer drugs more effective.

   Dr.Francois-Loic Cosset, a researcher at the Center for
Molecular Genetics in Lyons, France, described his attempts to
change the exterior or outer envelope of retroviruses to allow
them to take genes into a large percentage of cells.

   A retrovirus is particularly valuable in gene therapy because
it enters the cells with one form of nucleic acid called RNA.

   But an enzyme changes the form of the nucleic acid to DNA,
allowing the retrovirus to incorporate itself into the genetic
code of the cell.  If the retrovirus is attached to a
particular gene, it takes that gene into the cell and makes
the gene part of the cell's genetic code.

   Dr. Walter H. Gunzburg of the Institute for Molecular
Virology in Oberschleissheim, Germany, adds a second gene to
his retrovirus-gene combination that will allow the gene to be
turned on only in specific tissues.  That means a gene aimed at
killing cancer will work only in the tissues where the cancer
exists.

   While his research now focuses on mice, he said, ""this is a
system that may be used in human mammary glands. ''
 But Dr. Natasha Caplen of the of the British National Heart
and Lung Institute in London take a different approach,
wrapping genes in fatty envelopes called liposomes that take
DNA material into cells.

   In a study of 15 patients with cystic fibrosis, she found
that the liposomes actually took the gene that corrects the
disease into the epithelium of the nose, improving normal
activity an average of 20 percent.  However, she said, more
study is needed to determine if it accomplishes similar
effects in lungs.

   Other researchers are looking for proteins found only on the
surface of cancer cells to use as targets for gene therapy.

   Newly identified families of such proteins, called MAGE, BAGE
AND GAGE, offer important opportunities to activate the
cell-killing T-lymphocytes - components of the immune system -
to attack and eradicate cancers, said Dr. Vincent Brichard of
the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research in Brussels,
Belgium.

   Dr. Yoshikazu Sugimoto of Tokyo is fine-tuning a technique
that was first tried in human patients in Houston.

   Drs.  Albert Deisseroth and John Kavanagh of the University of
Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center were the first in the world
to use a retrovirus to take a multi-drug resistance gene into
the cells of patients with ovarian cancer.

   The gene protects the patients' bone marrow against the
killing effects of Taxol, a chemotherapy drug that has proven
effective against that disease.

   One worry is that the MDR gene might be introduced into tumor
cells as well as those in bone marrow, making the tumor
resistant to chemotherapy as well.

   Sugimoto is changing the virus vector used to take the gene
into cells by adding a suicide gene.

   Doctors could then use the anti-viral drug ganciclovir to
kill those tumor cells that contain the multi-drug resistance
gene as well.

   Sugimoto is also testing a system to add the multi-drug
resistance gene to genes for inherited diseases of the bone
marrow.  One drawback to doing that now is that retroviruses
would take the genes into less than 1 percent of bone marrow
cells - too few to have a therapeutic effect.

   Sugimoto proposes linking the MDR gene and the gene to
correct the inherited disease to a single virus.

   Patients would receive the gene to correct their disease
along with the MDR gene.  Then they would undergo chemotherapy
that would wipe out those cells that do not carry the
multidrug resistance gene.

   Only those cells with MDR and the gene that corrects the
inherited disease would survive the chemotherapy.  Eventually,
they would repopulate all the bone marrow.

   Dr. Leslie J. Fairbairn of the Paterson Institute for Cancer
Research at Christie Hospital in Manchester, England, is using
another gene to achieve chemoprotection by transferring a gene
for DNA repair into tissues and then treating patients with
alkylating anti-cancer drugs such as BCNU, one of the oldest
chemotherapeutic agents known.

   When cells that took up the new gene are treated with one of
the alkylating drugs, they live while those without the new
gene die, he said.

   ""It (the gene) got into the cells and protected them against
the alkylating agents,'' said Fairbairn.  The treatment has
promise in dealing with problems of dose and drug schedule as
well as allowing new drugs to come on the market and new
combinations to be tried, he said.


TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1995


                             161 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   September 10, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 2144 words

HEADLINE: Nation's University Hospitals Struggle to Find Cure for Economic Ills

BYLINE: Sarah Neville, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Once they were considered the crown jewels of American medicine. Now the
nation's teaching hospitals are fighting for life in a medical marketplace that
rewards cost controls as much as miracle cures.

   University hospitals such as Georgetown, Johns Hopkins and Columbia
Presbyterian have spawned some of the century's key medical breakthroughs. Their
emergency rooms and operating theaters have nurtured and trained some of the
best doctors. Many grew into vast medical centers providing essential health
care to the cities that surrounded them. Along the way, their doctors prospered
even during economic hard times.

   Now these elite institutions are being called to account as a revolution in
health care policy sweeps the nation. In Washington, Democrats and Republicans
agree that the breakneck growth of medical costs threatens the economy. Many of
the methods they propose to reduce spending would dramatically cut revenue at
academic hospitals. And, in their home communities, these institutions are being
forced to compete against health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other
for-profit managed care operations.

   Norm Ornstein, resident scholar with the American Enterprise Institute, a
conservative Washington think tank, believes the academic health centers must
brace themselves to cope with "a very different Congress and a very different
fiscal climate" than the one that has nourished them for generations.

   "This is a populist Congress," said Ornstein. "They are not going to be
terribly respectful of Ivy League schools or universities just because they are
universities." Younger Republican members of Congress in particular tended to
regard them "as hotbeds for liberals and radicals and have no strong interest in
feathering their nests. . . . They don't bow in obeisance to academic experts,"
he adds.

   But Judith L. Vaitukaitis, director of the National Center for Research
Resources at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), fears the main casualty
could be bedrock biomedical research for which academic medical centers
traditionally have provided "the seed corn." It is the kind of preliminary work
that lays the foundation for attacks on dreaded diseases such as cancer, AIDS
and Alzheimer's.

   And the idea that either pharmaceutical companies or HMOs, with a very
different kind of focus, would step forward to take up the slack is simply
unrealistic, Vaitukaitis said.

   At the root of the funding squeeze is a reluctance on the part of corporate
America and a deficit-weary public sector to pay the markup on hospital costs
with which the top universities traditionally have funded their research and
teaching missions. According to one recent estimate, the average per-case price
tag in one of America's most prestigious teaching hospitals is $ 8,822 compared
with $ 5,020 for nonteaching hospitals.

   Many are fighting hard to adapt to the changed climate with a new emphasis on
outpatient and primary care. But the latest available figures from the
Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), covering the 1993-94 financial
year, show that 30 of the nation's 126 academic medical centers registered a
drop in revenue. Three years earlier just 18 were in that position.

   And with managed care still to make its presence felt in many parts of the
country, the AAMC predicts that figure is likely to rise in the next few years.

   Terry Hickey, associate vice president of the medical center at the
University of Alabama, predicts overall numbers could fall to fewer than 100 as
centers are driven out of business.

   All three of the academic medical centers in the District -- Georgetown,
George Washington and Howard -- have eliminated hundreds of jobs since the
beginning of the year to cut costs. Each is struggling to compete for managed
care contracts against suburban hospitals that have no research or training
costs. GWU has felt the pinch so severely this summer it decided to sell or seek
a financial partner for its hospital.

   Compared with their colleagues in private practices, doctors associated with
universities enjoy benefits ranging from lower overhead costs to prestigious
titles. In recognition of this, they customarily contribute 10 cents from every
dollar they earn to research carried out within their department. A survey
conducted by the AAMC, based on responses from just under half of all academic
medical centers, estimated the result is an annual cache of $ 816 million for
medical research.

   But as the competition with low-cost managed care plans begins to bite,
doctors at academic medical centers are increasingly unable or unwilling to make
that contribution to the research enterprise.

   William Kelley, chief executive officer of the University of Pennsylvania
Medical Center and dean of the medical school, points to his university's
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, which appears set to produce improved
treatment methods and even some cures, as the kind of initiative that could not
have been established without that funding stream. "Nobody but us would have
paid to set it up," he said.

   Deepening the financial peril, congressional Republican proposals to slow the
growth of spending on Medicare and Medicaid would slash millions more from
university hospital balance sheets. Proposals expected to be considered by
Congress would cut between half and two-thirds from subsidies, this year
totaling $ 5.5 billion, which are intended to defray the cost of medical
education. Meanwhile, another annual subsidy -- $ 3.4 billion this year -- that
is designed to compensate academic hospitals for the disproportionate share of
poor and seriously ill patients they treat is slated for abolition on the
grounds that it is badly targeted and has been systematically abused.

   Gerald Lazarus, dean of the medical school at the University of California at
Davis, estimates that the proposed cuts in reimbursement for medical education
and "disproportionate share" will cost Davis $ 24 million, leaving the medical
school "teetering on the brink of catastrophe. . . . There is no way without
some assistance we would be able to continue."

   Both the Clinton administration and Republican congressional leaders argue
that Medicare and Medicaid spending has been growing so quickly -- at nearly
twice the rate of inflation -- that the programs will become bankrupting
liabilities for the federal government unless stern measures are taken. They
differ, however, on how much spending needs to be reduced and how quickly it
should be done. Regardless of which side prevails, academic hospitals are likely
to get much less money from Washington than before.

   Some doctors worry that with cutbacks in federal funding research will be
even more vulnerable in a commercially driven environment.

   Jim Slater, chief surgical resident at New York's Columbia Presbyterian,
points out a man seated in a wheelchair, and says, "This patient is an economic
loss for this hospital."

   Tubes attached to a console in front of the man run into his abdomen. Slater
explains that this is the L-VAD, an artificial heart designed to buy time for
cardiac victims while they wait for transplants. Columbia, with 54 installed so
far, is in the vanguard of a treatment that eventually could lead to the
development of permanent artificial hearts, banishing forever the desperate
search for an organ donor.

   He fears that relegating research to commercially driven organizations such
as HMOs would profoundly change the collaborative climate on which scientific
advances have always depended.

   "The problem is that, unlike a university, which really doesn't exist for
profit, those major players will exist for profit," Slater said. "Right now we
have a very open environment of sharing information. . . . If there were
economic consequences to that, if I worked for a company, and sharing that work
with another company meant that my company lost an advantage, then I wouldn't be
so quick to share it."

   Ron Keeney, a consultant for medical centers arranging alliances with
pharmaceutical companies, rejects the contention that drug companies are
fundamentally disinterested in the pursuit of biomedical research.

   While conceding that a commercial company would be unlikely to pursue a
project that did not offer at least a distant prospect of commercial
application, Keeney said pharmaceutical companies remain the single biggest
funders of medical research in the United States.

   Arguing that university medical schools should come "down to earth," he
suggested there is a degree of snobbery in their attitude to the role of his
industry in the conduct of research. "The academic health centers have always
generally felt their research is not contaminated with commercialism; therefore
it is better research than is done in industry," he said. Academia tends to
exhibit "sort of an arrogance that prevents a dialogue" with the pharmaceutical
companies.

   Within the HMO community there is a clear belief that the academic medical
centers must accept that their Ivory Tower existence, immune from the pressures
of the marketplace, is coming to an end.

   Frank E. Murray, senior physician consultant with the Kaiser Permanente
Program in Georgia, said that while his organization has, since its inception,
maintained a commitment to research, the same cannot be said for many of its
"for-profit" counterparts.

   "I think there is some justification for concern that HMOs may not be
participating to the degree that they could in clinical research. . . . There is
some real appropriateness to the concerns being expressed by academic health
centers," Murray said.

   But suggesting that university hospitals must face up to the tough new
economic climate in which they now have to function, he said: "I sort of have
the feeling . . . that over the years they [the academic medical centers] have
gotten everything they asked for. No one [has said], 'Justify how this money is
going to be spent.' "

   Behind the impressive pillars and porticoes of the nation's medical schools
the mood is grim.

   Take Columbia Presbyterian, one of the country's most distinguished research
and teaching institutions.

   For Stephen Brown, five years of encouraging work on chromosome deletions
threatens to come to an abrupt halt as he struggles to find fresh funding.

   Surgical resident Slater worries that changes in Medicare reimbursement
rules, which now allow for a five-year resident training period under some
circumstances, could cost some future doctors the chance he had to spend an
additional year on cardiac research.

   And the university's PhD candidates, among the nation's best hopes of
scientific breakthroughs in the 21st century, contemplate careers on the stock
market or in the once-despised field of patent law as the number of research
posts dwindles alarmingly.

   The demoralization among PhD students is apparent as they gather for a weekly
meeting. Gallows humor is the order of the day. They are among the best young
brains in the country. Their passion for their subject still burns bright. But
asked about their post-doctoral job prospects, one points at a pizza box on the
table and quips: "I hear they're hiring."

   Alan Dove, 27, brings news of an even more striking accommodation with
mammon. Physicists are finding a lucrative if incongruous niche on the stock
exchange by virtue of their capacity to create intricate formulas and programs
to serve the derivatives market.

   From the perspective of these youngsters, at 38, Stephen Brown is one of the
lucky ones. For the past five years he has pursued research that shows promise
for understanding how chromosome deletions cause birth defects.

   But now he, too, is feeling the chill wind of the medical marketplace. "In
the next one to two calendar years, the rubber will meet the road in a very big
hurry, . . ." he said. "I'm a net loss to my department, I cost them money. And
how long they can continue to suffer people like me costing them money is not
that long, you know."

   From inside the dean of Columbia Medical School's paneled offices, hung with
the portraits of illustrious predecessors, the institution Herbert Pardes heads
seems indestructible. The truth, he indicates, may be alarmingly different.
Predicting a fall of between 15 percent and 20 percent in the money generated
for research from faculty earnings within five years, he said, "My anxiety is
that managed care will decimate American medicine and academic medicine."

   "The tragedy is that American medicine is probably the best in the world, and
the biomedical research enterprise to which it is related is the best in the
world. And to see this -- one of the few things that the society does really
well -- placed in such a vulnerable situation I find disturbing as an academic,
as a health professional, as an educator and as a citizen."


GRAPHIC: Photo, ari mintz for The Washington Post, James Slater, chief surgical
resident at New York's Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, which faces financial
pressures, works with a patient with an artificial heart.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995


                             162 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   September 10, 1995, Sunday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 2144 words

HEADLINE: Nation's University Hospitals Struggle to Find Cure for Economic Ills

BYLINE: Sarah Neville, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Once they were considered the crown jewels of American medicine. Now the
nation's teaching hospitals are fighting for life in a medical marketplace that
rewards cost controls as much as miracle cures.

   University hospitals such as Georgetown, Johns Hopkins and Columbia
Presbyterian have spawned some of the century's key medical breakthroughs. Their
emergency rooms and operating theaters have nurtured and trained some of the
best doctors. Many grew into vast medical centers providing essential health
care to the cities that surrounded them. Along the way, their doctors prospered
even during economic hard times.

   Now these elite institutions are being called to account as a revolution in
health care policy sweeps the nation. In Washington, Democrats and Republicans
agree that the breakneck growth of medical costs threatens the economy. Many of
the methods they propose to reduce spending would dramatically cut revenue at
academic hospitals. And, in their home communities, these institutions are being
forced to compete against health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and other
for-profit managed care operations.

   Norm Ornstein, resident scholar with the American Enterprise Institute, a
conservative Washington think tank, believes the academic health centers must
brace themselves to cope with "a very different Congress and a very different
fiscal climate" than the one that has nourished them for generations.

   "This is a populist Congress," said Ornstein. "They are not going to be
terribly respectful of Ivy League schools or universities just because they are
universities." Younger Republican members of Congress in particular tended to
regard them "as hotbeds for liberals and radicals and have no strong interest in
feathering their nests. . . . They don't bow in obeisance to academic experts,"
he adds.

   But Judith L. Vaitukaitis, director of the National Center for Research
Resources at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), fears the main casualty
could be bedrock biomedical research for which academic medical centers
traditionally have provided "the seed corn." It is the kind of preliminary work
that lays the foundation for attacks on dreaded diseases such as cancer, AIDS
and Alzheimer's.

   And the idea that either pharmaceutical companies or HMOs, with a very
different kind of focus, would step forward to take up the slack is simply
unrealistic, Vaitukaitis said.

   At the root of the funding squeeze is a reluctance on the part of corporate
America and a deficit-weary public sector to pay the markup on hospital costs
with which the top universities traditionally have funded their research and
teaching missions. According to one recent estimate, the average per-case price
tag in one of America's most prestigious teaching hospitals is $ 8,822 compared
with $ 5,020 for nonteaching hospitals.

   Many are fighting hard to adapt to the changed climate with a new emphasis on
outpatient and primary care. But the latest available figures from the
Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), covering the 1993-94 financial
year, show that 30 of the nation's 126 academic medical centers registered a
drop in revenue. Three years earlier just 18 were in that position.

   And with managed care still to make its presence felt in many parts of the
country, the AAMC predicts that figure is likely to rise in the next few years.

   Terry Hickey, associate vice president of the medical center at the
University of Alabama, predicts overall numbers could fall to fewer than 100 as
centers are driven out of business.

   All three of the academic medical centers in the District -- Georgetown,
George Washington and Howard -- have eliminated hundreds of jobs since the
beginning of the year to cut costs. Each is struggling to compete for managed
care contracts against suburban hospitals that have no research or training
costs. GWU has felt the pinch so severely this summer it decided to sell or seek
a financial partner for its hospital.

   Compared with their colleagues in private practices, doctors associated with
universities enjoy benefits ranging from lower overhead costs to prestigious
titles. In recognition of this, they customarily contribute 10 cents from every
dollar they earn to research carried out within their department. A survey
conducted by the AAMC, based on responses from just under half of all academic
medical centers, estimated the result is an annual cache of $ 816 million for
medical research.

   But as the competition with low-cost managed care plans begins to bite,
doctors at academic medical centers are increasingly unable or unwilling to make
that contribution to the research enterprise.

   William Kelley, chief executive officer of the University of Pennsylvania
Medical Center and dean of the medical school, points to his university's
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, which appears set to produce improved
treatment methods and even some cures, as the kind of initiative that could not
have been established without that funding stream. "Nobody but us would have
paid to set it up," he said.

   Deepening the financial peril, congressional Republican proposals to slow the
growth of spending on Medicare and Medicaid would slash millions more from
university hospital balance sheets. Proposals expected to be considered by
Congress would cut between half and two-thirds from subsidies, this year
totaling $ 5.5 billion, which are intended to defray the cost of medical
education. Meanwhile, another annual subsidy -- $ 3.4 billion this year -- that
is designed to compensate academic hospitals for the disproportionate share of
poor and seriously ill patients they treat is slated for abolition on the
grounds that it is badly targeted and has been systematically abused.

   Gerald Lazarus, dean of the medical school at the University of California at
Davis, estimates that the proposed cuts in reimbursement for medical education
and "disproportionate share" will cost Davis $ 24 million, leaving the medical
school "teetering on the brink of catastrophe. . . . There is no way without
some assistance we would be able to continue."

   Both the Clinton administration and Republican congressional leaders argue
that Medicare and Medicaid spending has been growing so quickly -- at nearly
twice the rate of inflation -- that the programs will become bankrupting
liabilities for the federal government unless stern measures are taken. They
differ, however, on how much spending needs to be reduced and how quickly it
should be done. Regardless of which side prevails, academic hospitals are likely
to get much less money from Washington than before.

   Some doctors worry that with cutbacks in federal funding research will be
even more vulnerable in a commercially driven environment.

   Jim Slater, chief surgical resident at New York's Columbia Presbyterian,
points out a man seated in a wheelchair, and says, "This patient is an economic
loss for this hospital."

   Tubes attached to a console in front of the man run into his abdomen. Slater
explains that this is the L-VAD, an artificial heart designed to buy time for
cardiac victims while they wait for transplants. Columbia, with 54 installed so
far, is in the vanguard of a treatment that eventually could lead to the
development of permanent artificial hearts, banishing forever the desperate
search for an organ donor.

   He fears that relegating research to commercially driven organizations such
as HMOs would profoundly change the collaborative climate on which scientific
advances have always depended.

   "The problem is that, unlike a university, which really doesn't exist for
profit, those major players will exist for profit," Slater said. "Right now we
have a very open environment of sharing information. . . . If there were
economic consequences to that, if I worked for a company, and sharing that work
with another company meant that my company lost an advantage, then I wouldn't be
so quick to share it."

   Ron Keeney, a consultant for medical centers arranging alliances with
pharmaceutical companies, rejects the contention that drug companies are
fundamentally disinterested in the pursuit of biomedical research.

   While conceding that a commercial company would be unlikely to pursue a
project that did not offer at least a distant prospect of commercial
application, Keeney said pharmaceutical companies remain the single biggest
funders of medical research in the United States.

   Arguing that university medical schools should come "down to earth," he
suggested there is a degree of snobbery in their attitude to the role of his
industry in the conduct of research. "The academic health centers have always
generally felt their research is not contaminated with commercialism; therefore
it is better research than is done in industry," he said. Academia tends to
exhibit "sort of an arrogance that prevents a dialogue" with the pharmaceutical
companies.

   Within the HMO community there is a clear belief that the academic medical
centers must accept that their Ivory Tower existence, immune from the pressures
of the marketplace, is coming to an end.

   Frank E. Murray, senior physician consultant with the Kaiser Permanente
Program in Georgia, said that while his organization has, since its inception,
maintained a commitment to research, the same cannot be said for many of its
"for-profit" counterparts.

   "I think there is some justification for concern that HMOs may not be
participating to the degree that they could in clinical research. . . . There is
some real appropriateness to the concerns being expressed by academic health
centers," Murray said.

   But suggesting that university hospitals must face up to the tough new
economic climate in which they now have to function, he said: "I sort of have
the feeling . . . that over the years they [the academic medical centers] have
gotten everything they asked for. No one [has said], 'Justify how this money is
going to be spent.' "

   Behind the impressive pillars and porticoes of the nation's medical schools
the mood is grim.

   Take Columbia Presbyterian, one of the country's most distinguished research
and teaching institutions.

   For Stephen Brown, five years of encouraging work on chromosome deletions
threatens to come to an abrupt halt as he struggles to find fresh funding.

   Surgical resident Slater worries that changes in Medicare reimbursement
rules, which now allow for a five-year resident training period under some
circumstances, could cost some future doctors the chance he had to spend an
additional year on cardiac research.

   And the university's PhD candidates, among the nation's best hopes of
scientific breakthroughs in the 21st century, contemplate careers on the stock
market or in the once-despised field of patent law as the number of research
posts dwindles alarmingly.

   The demoralization among PhD students is apparent as they gather for a weekly
meeting. Gallows humor is the order of the day. They are among the best young
brains in the country. Their passion for their subject still burns bright. But
asked about their post-doctoral job prospects, one points at a pizza box on the
table and quips: "I hear they're hiring."

   Alan Dove, 27, brings news of an even more striking accommodation with
mammon. Physicists are finding a lucrative if incongruous niche on the stock
exchange by virtue of their capacity to create intricate formulas and programs
to serve the derivatives market.

   From the perspective of these youngsters, at 38, Stephen Brown is one of the
lucky ones. For the past five years he has pursued research that shows promise
for understanding how chromosome deletions cause birth defects.

   But now he, too, is feeling the chill wind of the medical marketplace. "In
the next one to two calendar years, the rubber will meet the road in a very big
hurry, . . ." he said. "I'm a net loss to my department, I cost them money. And
how long they can continue to suffer people like me costing them money is not
that long, you know."

   From inside the dean of Columbia Medical School's paneled offices, hung with
the portraits of illustrious predecessors, the institution Herbert Pardes heads
seems indestructible. The truth, he indicates, may be alarmingly different.
Predicting a fall of between 15 percent and 20 percent in the money generated
for research from faculty earnings within five years, he said, "My anxiety is
that managed care will decimate American medicine and academic medicine."

   "The tragedy is that American medicine is probably the best in the world, and
the biomedical research enterprise to which it is related is the best in the
world. And to see this -- one of the few things that the society does really
well -- placed in such a vulnerable situation I find disturbing as an academic,
as a health professional, as an educator and as a citizen."


GRAPHIC: Photo, ari mintz for The Washington Post, James Slater, chief surgical
resident at New York's Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, which faces financial
pressures, works with a patient with an artificial heart.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1995


                             163 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           September 9, 1995 Saturday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: It's time to tend to the garden

BYLINE: Richard Louv.

   rlouv@cts.com

BODY:

   For decades, my brother and I have tended our relationship like an old and
tangled garden.

   This has never been easy but always necessary. We share a code of language
and loss, of symbols from long ago.

   We can recall together, as we can with no one else, the scent of the rooms
and cellars and attics of our childhood.

   Sometimes, late at night and long-distance, we attempt to understand the
equation of our parents.

   These conversations are our only living remnants of them.

   Perhaps we keep them alive this way, sometimes at our own risk. In any case,
our brotherhood is the longest relationship we will ever have; it is now 40
years old, and if we live long enough, and tend it well, our relationship -- our
friendship -- may last a half-century more. Most of us know our brothers and
sisters longer than other friends or family members, including our parents,
spouses and children.

   And yet we do not know much about the dynamics of these bonds. When Marsha
Summers, a faculty member at Ball State University and chairwoman of the
National Sibling Research Group, first analyzed sibling relationships in 1985,
she found that only 20 studies had been done; but in 1995 alone, 20 more are
expected to be published. Interest in the sibling relationship is rising because
of demographics.

   We are becoming a sibling society. Most baby boomers have at least two
siblings; at the same time, we have produced fewer children than preceding
generations, and more of us will probably remain single as we age.

   We also live in a mobile, time-poor era when long-term friendships seem
tenuous.

   So some social scientists believe that boomers, more than past generations,
will turn to siblings for support and kinship.

   At least that's the theory. Fragile roots Marian Sandmaier, author of
"Original Kin: The Search for Connection Among Adult Sisters and Brothers"
(Plume, $11.95), writes: "The tie of time mingles with the tie of blood.

   A brother or sister shares, on average, fully half of our genes.

   One looks at a sibling and sees shards of self: the shape of a nose, the way
the body is held, a mania for music, a to-the-death stubbornness.

   To have a brother or sister is to have someone who is, visibly and actually,
part of oneself." Genetic similarities are important, but shared history is also
important. Who knows where nature ends and nurture begins?

   The mania my brother and I share is for fishing, for this was part of the
healing adhesive for our fragile family together.

   We are still fragile. Indeed, there is something innately ambivalent and
difficult about the sibling bond.

   As Sandmaier writes, "the genetic glue ensures only a primitive loyalty."

   Primatologists report that conflict is more common, though not as intense,
among primate siblings than among those not related. Siblings, it seems, like to
fight. The other night, after a long phone wrangle over what to do about our
mother's house, I admitted to my brother: "I never yell at anyone like I yell at
you.

   I seldom lose my temper.

   I don't understand it."

   It is as if brotherhood carries with it a license to vent. It is a dangerous
license, for much could be lost. Our anger at each other is born of
protectiveness, for we spent much of our childhood fearing for one another, and
still do.

   These fears, along with jealousies and resentments and bursts of love and
recognition, are the fruits of our garden.

   But a garden, perhaps the best parts first, can wither. Sibling feuds often
spring up over the care of an aging parent, or when the parents die, as the
belongings of that other life are painfully split apart.

   We can find ourselves reeling backward into cartoonish roles that we thought
we had left behind long ago. Sisters are more likely to maintain good relations
than brothers.

   "The glue of sisters' bond is talk," Sandmaier told The Orlando Sentinel.

   Brothers often "mutually forget about the relationship."

   One reason: Brothers may be more susceptible than sisters to competitiveness
rooted in childhood. "Younger brothers may feel like they have been in the older
brother's shadow since Day 1." To this day, my brother insists, half-jokingly,
that I have more luck in fishing and in life, but I believe that I am more a
fisher in theory than in practice; he is the one who, before he became a
teacher, made a living on the sea.

   Perhaps, in subtle ways, both of us wish to keep the myth of our relative
luck alive, however inaccurate. The most problematic sibling relationships are
between brothers and sisters.

   "Often the sister wants more from the relationship than her brother is
giving," says Sandmaier.

   She may want heart-to-heart talks, as sisters often have.

   Sometimes a sister may still have issues from childhood, especially if her
brother received favored treatment from their parents." Yet, what surprises me
most about the gardens of brotherhood and sisterhood is their resilience.

   They do not spring from summer seeds, but from winter bulbs buried deep.

   Only about 3 percent of brothers and sisters formally cut the sibling bond.

   Despite the mixed emotions that many siblings feel toward each other, polls
show that most Americans would like to see their siblings more often than the
typical two or three times a year. In an aging society, psychologists place more
importance on nurturing the sibling relationship.

   Some promote "sibling therapy," similar to marriage therapy.

   In her book, Sandmaier suggests that we can't "fix" a sibling, but we can
change our own behavior; we can quit expecting our siblings to be like us; we
can work to reshape the frozen images of one another.

   And just as a death in the family can drive siblings apart, it can also end
an estrangement. Not every garden can grow, but some can be successfully weeded
and watered with love and humor and a few new seeds.

   For my brother and me, it's time to do some planting.

   And then some fishing. RICHARD LOUV's column appears in Family Ties on
Saturdays and on Page A-2 on Wednesdays.

   He can be reached by fax at 293-2148; by e-mail at rlouv@cts.com; or by
regular mail at P.O. Box 191, San Diego, CA 92112.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             164 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1995 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           September 7, 1995 Thursday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-8

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Salk team puts gene therapy back on target;
Can send altered cells to the right places

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   New research reported from the Salk Institute could help gene therapy
overcome some key obstacles toward fulfilling its promise of becoming a powerful
medical treatment. Salk scientists believe they have developed a way to target
therapeutic genes directly at organs in the body where they are needed. Such
specific delivery increases the chance that the genetic benefit will be realized
-- and it supports the possibilities for new treatments, said Inder Verma, the
Salk biologist who developed the technique. The development comes at a time when
experts say gene therapy could use a boost to make it more effective. For five
years, genes have been delivered into patients in experimental procedures,
typically by adding a gene to cells that are then injected into a patient.

   There in the blood, the gene is supposed to produce its natural, beneficial
product, perhaps a blood clotting factor for hemophiliacs, insulin for
diabetics, growth factors or substances that would correct an immune system
disorder. More than treating symptoms, gene therapy is powerful for its
potential to address and correct the causes of disease. While the gene transfers
apparently have done no harm, they haven't provided much benefit either, experts
are finding. "Clinical trials have gone faster than basic research," Verma said.

   "We can deliver cells and it's safe, but at the moment it is not clear
whether the protocols are effective.

   They need refinement." Too often, too few of the genetically boosted cells
reach the organ where the gene product is needed.

   Sometimes the cells don't continue making the product long enough, requiring
an additional dose, and sometimes the body's immune system attacks the
transplanted cells as invaders and neutralizes them. To circumvent those
problem, Verma's group found a way to direct a harmless virus to carry the
therapeutic gene exactly to the desired organ. To the virus was added an
antibody that recognizes and can dock with a unique receptor that exists only on
that organ.

   Once there, it can deliver its genetic substance. The work is reported in the
August issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. To
demonstrate the targeted approach, Verma and Nikunj Somia took a mouse virus and
engineered a portion of a human antibody onto it.

   The antibody can only attach to a particular receptor that exists on cells in
the human liver.

   They showed in cells in lab dishes that the newly armed virus acted like a
kind of homing device and could only enter cells with the unique receptor. Other
labs had tried similar approaches to targeting.

   Verma's succeeded through a complex thicket of possibilities in finding the
right combination of antibody and the virus' natural outer coating so that it
would work. The research was mostly "trial and error" but involved techniques at
the forefront of molecular biology, Verma said. "These efforts to redirect genes
to a specific target are important advances," said Dusty Miller, a molecular
biologist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.

   "This is a step on the path." Though Verma has shown how the technique can
work, it will require refinements, Miller said.

   For example, the body might attack the mouse cells he is using, Miller said.

   Somia believes that problem can be circumvented. Verma imagines an even more
significant application for targeted delivery: a way to use the technology to
provide an endless amount of the beneficial genetic substance.

   He wants to aim the virus so that it will head for stem cells, those cells in
the bone marrow that give rise to all blood cells. A gene delivered there would
exist in all newly created blood cells so that the blood cell would be an
ever-present factory pumping out the desirable product.

   No additional injections or doses would be necessary. "We'd want to have its
effects last the full lifetime of an adult individual," Verma said. His lab is
developing such strategies now. But Miller cautions that it is difficult to
deliver genes into stem cells, making that research all the more difficult.
There is plenty of room for improving delivery techniques, says Dr. James
Wilson, director of the University of Pennsylvania's Human Gene Therapy
Institute.

   Writing in the September issue of Nature Medicine, he identifies problems of
targeted gene delivery and quantity as key reasons why gene therapy has not been
more valuable. Those are the two issues Verma's work seeks to address. Genes are
used in other, more elaborate strategies to treat cancers, often in combination
with drugs.

   Those treatments, too, could benefit from better delivery techniques, experts
say.

GRAPHIC: 1 PIC; CAPTIONS: Inder Verma: Biologist at Salk Institute.; PHOTOBY:
UNION-TRIBUNE

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             165 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   September 4, 1995, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: THE GENE DOCTORS;
'Suicide gene' treatment tested on recurring brain cancer

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   In a milestone for gene therapy, a ""suicide gene'' treatment
for recurring brain cancer is being tested at several U.S.
centers - including one in Houston.

   The ""suicide gene'' is so named, despite its lifesaving
potential, because it causes cancerous cells to attract
molecules of a drug that kills them.

   Drs.  Raymond Sawaya and Alfred Yung, both of the University of
Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, will direct the Houston
effort to determine the effectiveness of the gene therapy
treatment, which involves a new twist on one of the first gene
therapy experiments to be used on human patients.

   While conventional treatments such as surgery, radiotherapy
and chemotherapy have extended the lives of patients with
brain tumors, they live no more than an extra one to three
years, said Yung, deputy chairman of Anderson's neuro-oncology
department.

   ""That's why we are looking at these other modalities (methods
of treatment),'' he said.

   The original study, led by Dr. Edward Oldfield at the National
Institutes of Health, attached a gene from a herpes virus (the
kind of organism that causes cold sores) to an inactivated
retrovirus - a virus that can insert its own message into a
cell's genetic code.

   In gene therapy, the infective properties of such a virus are
used to make beneficial changes in cells.

   Oldfield used the retrovirus to insert the herpes gene into
the cells of brain cancers called gliomas.  The gene caused the
tumor cells to make the enzyme thymidine kinase, known by the
shorthand TK.

   Then he treated the tumor cells with ganciclovir, an antiviral
drug that zeros in on the TK gene.  When the TK gene is present
in tumor cells, they attract the ganciclovir and are killed.

   In experiments with rats, molecules of ganciclovir were
attracted to the site of the tumors by the chemical lure of
the TK ""suicide gene. '' When they hit the brain tumor's cells,
the drug molecules often eradicated the visible tumor.

   But initial results in humans disappointed researchers.  Tumors
shrunk, but did not always disappear, in eight of the first 15
patients who underwent the treatment.

   One stumbling block is the virus.

   Because they can only infect dividing cells, retroviruses take
a gene into only a small percentage of tumor cells.  And since
the viruses used for this purpose are altered so they cannot
replicate in the body, they do not spread from one cell to
another.

   But Yung said that Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg, Md.,
the company funding the study, has developed a new technique
that results in higher virus concentrations.

   When more virus particles are introduced into the tumor, it is
more likely that greater numbers of tumor cells will be
infected with the virus.

   The more cells that carry the TK gene, the more likely that a
greater proportion of the tumor will be killed.

   This new technique should increase the numbers of cells that
are infected by the gene-carrying virus, said Yung.

   Before, no more than one to 10 percent of brain tumor cells
accepted the new gene.  The retroviruses can infect only
dividing cells; and no more than 20 percent of cells in a
glioma are dividing at any one time.

   The new cell line infects as many as 20 percent of cells, said
Yung.  ""That's why we are attempting this expanded effort. ''

   Sawaya, chairman of Anderson's neurosurgery department, said
he is increasingly seeing brain tumors such as gliomas and
astrocytomas (defined by the type of cell) in people in their
30s and 40s.

   ""This is a disease for which there is no cure,'' said Sawaya.

   In another similar trial, a team led by Savio Woo and Robert
Grossman at Baylor College of Medicine is using an adenovirus
attached to the TK gene to infect tumor cells.

   Adenoviruses can infect cells that are not dividing and can
carry the gene into a much higher percentage of the brain
cancer cells.

   Woo and Grossman have received preliminary approval to use the
treatment in patients, but they are waiting for a final
go-ahead from federal agencies such as the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration as well as crucial groups at the National
Institutes of Health.

   But like Oldfield, they will carry out their first studies to
determine whether the treatment is safe for humans.

   Yung said he expects to enroll between five and 15 patients in
the Houston portion of his study.

   Other centers involved include Columbia-Presbyterian and Johns
Hopkins hospitals along with the Universities of Washington,
California at San Francisco, Virginia, Cincinnati and Florida.

   But because the study is looking at whether the treatment is
effective, Yung and Sawaya cannot promise patients that they
will be cured or their lives significantly prolonged.

   All patients selected for the study will have undergone
conventional therapies, then suffered a recurrence of their
brain cancer.

   In a surgical suite, Sawaya will attach a special stereotactic
frame to the patient's head.  The frame allows him to determine
the three-dimensional coordinates of the tumors inside the
brain.

   Then he can position his syringes and catheters precisely to
inject cells that produce the virus directly into the tumors.

   This experiment will give the brain cancer experts the
opportunity to set up a gene therapy team, said Yung.

   He is developing a treatment using an adenovirus to take a
tumor suppressor gene called p53 into brain tumors.

   He has found that at least 50 percent of brain tumor cells
have an abnormal form of the p53 gene, leading doctors to
believe that the gene is no longer carrying out its
suppressive function.

   In lab and animal experiments, he has put normal p53 in
tumors, and observed tumor cell death within one or two days.

   However, he has more experiments to do along that line, said
Yung.  After that, he must fulfill the bureaucratic
requirements needed before gene therapy is carried out in
humans.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Drs. Alfred Yung and Raymond Sawaya examine a gel that shows the
protein made by the p53 gene (p. 16); Betty Tichich/Chronicle

TYPE: Series

NOTES: One in an occasional series.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1995


                             166 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 4, 1995, Monday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A6, SCIENCE NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Fetal gene therapy

BYLINE: From local and wire dispatches

BODY:


   University of Pittsburgh researchers say an animal experiment sets the stage
for someday treating cystic fibrosis and other inherited lung disorders while
the fetus is in the womb.

   The scientists used a retrovirus to transfer a gene into fetal sheep, they
reported in the July issue of the journal Gene Therapy. The transferred gene was
shown to be functioning at least three weeks after the procedure.

   Bruce Pitt, a Pitt pharmacologist, said correcting genetic defects in the
fetal lung holds particular promise because the cells in the lining of the
airways are likely to be dividing, making it easier to introduce a new gene.
Those cells normally don't divide in a mature lung. Molecular geneticist Paul
Robbins developed the retrovirus used in the experiment and Simon Watkins,
director of the Structural Imaging Center, monitored the transferred genes.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1995


                             167 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 3, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Genes commercialized;
Seeking patents for living things -- a new, controversial gold rush

BYLINE: Robert S. Boyd, Knight-Ridder News Service

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   As fast as scientists can find them, the genes in tomatoes, goats, people and
other living creatures are being commercialized by private industry.

   In the last two years, biotechnology companies have applied for patents on
hundreds of thousands of segments of human DNA, the threadlike molecule on which
genes are strung.

   Patents -- which give inventors exclusive rights to market their discoveries
for 20 years -- have also been sought, and sometimes granted, for genetically
engineered animals, plants and other lower forms of life.

   Billions of dollars and thousands of American jobs are at stake in this
genetic gold rush. But some analysts fear that biotechnology patents are being
granted for minor variations, leading to a thicket of litigation that could
stifle instead of stimulate scientific progress.

   Other critics raise ethical and religious objections to what Methodist Bishop
Kenneth Carder called ''the commodification of life.''

   ''We believe that humans and animals are creations of God, not humans, and as
such should not be patented as human inventions,'' a coalition of 80 religious
organizations, led by the United Methodist Church, declared in May.

   Patents are nothing new; they have been part of the American system since
Colonial days. Their purpose, as spelled out in Article I of the Constitution,
is to ''promote the progress of science and useful arts'' by rewarding
innovation.

   Particularly when government spending for science and technology is
shrinking, patents are a useful incentive to private investors to keep research
money flowing.

   But patenting living things is a recent development.

   The Supreme Court opened the floodgates in 1980 when it ruled that a General
Electric Co. scientist, Ananada Chakrabarty, could patent a microbe that breaks
down crude oil.

   ''Anything under the sun that is made by man'' can be patented, the court
declared.

   Genetic patent-seekers promptly began moving up the biological ladder leading
from microbes to plants to animals and ultimately to humans.

   -- Starting in the early 1980s, scores of genetically engineered plants have
been patented. The slow-to-spoil Flavr-Savr tomato developed by Calgene Inc., of
Davis, Calif., is a well-known example.

   Much greater sums are at stake in patents granted to Agracetus Inc., of
Middleton, Wis., for all forms of genetically engineered varieties of cotton and
soybeans, a potential multibillion-dollar harvest.

   ''All transgenic cotton products ... will have to be commercially licensed
through us before they can enter the marketplace,'' Russell Smestad, vice
president of Agracetus, a subsidiary of W.R. Grace & Co., of Boca Raton, Fla.,
told AgBiotechnology News.

   -- In 1988, Harvard University received the first patent on a living animal,
a genetically modified mouse used for cancer research. The ''Harvard Mouse''
caused an uproar and led to Senate hearings, but no action was taken. At least
seven other species of animals have since been patented.

   Just this month the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of
genetically altered goats to produce medicines for heart and blood diseases.
These ''transgenic goats'' were patented by Genzyme Transgenics Corp. of
Framingham, Mass.

   -- Starting in 1991, the National Institutes of Health sought to patent
thousands of fragments of human DNA discovered by government researchers. Some
scientists and ethicists objected vigorously, and last year the Clinton
administration withdrew requests covering 6,869 DNA segments.

   Harold Varmus, the new NIH director, said such early-stage patents, when the
functions of the gene are unknown, are ''not in the best interests of the public
or science (and) may impede important research collaborations.''

   The U.S. Patent Office has declared that it cannot grant patents on human
beings or human genes, since they are not manmade but a ''phenomenon of
nature.''

   But products produced from genes, the molecular code for genes, and gene
therapy techniques can be patented.

   And sometimes the line between what is patentable and what is not gets
blurry, according to Hope Shand, a critic of genetic patents who works at the
Rural Advancement Foundation International in Pittsboro, N.C.

   For example, the Patent Office is weighing applications for almost half a
million snippets of human DNA, including the code for approximately 100 complete
genes, submitted by two 3-year-old biotechnology companies, Incyte
Pharmaceuticals Inc., of Palo Alto, Calif., and Human Genome Sciences Inc., of
Gaithersburg, Md.

   Incyte has filed patent applications covering more than 100,000 partial genes
which it has identified and stored in its computer data base, according to
Barbara Luther, the company's patent attorney.

   ''Other companies are filing for patents. We don't want to be locked out,''
Luther said.

   According to Incyte's latest annual report, the company's goal is to create a
catalog containing the complete code for all estimated 100,000 human genes. The
company will exploit the ''commercial value'' of the catalog by offering
''one-stop shopping for genes,'' it said.

   Two major pharmaceutical manufacturers, Pfizer Inc., of New York, and The
Upjohn Co., of Kalamazoo, Mich., are investing $ 45 million in Incyte for access
to its database. Fortune magazine rated Incyte stock among the ''Top 25 Best
Performers'' on the American Stock Exchange in 1994.

   Human Genome Sciences has filed at least 25 patent applications covering more
than 200,000 partial genes sequences analyzed by its computers. William
Haseltine, chief executive of Human Genome Sciences, told shareholders last
December that the firm ''has now identified approximately 100 new human genes
that may have potential medical utility.''

   SmithKline Beecham, a major drug manufacturer based in Philadelphia, is
investing $ 100 million in Human Genome Sciences, in return for first claim on
any commercially valuable products resulting from its work.

   One of the most sweeping human patents was issued this spring to three
federal researchers at the National Institutes of Health. The patent covers
''any method'' of gene therapy that involves taking cells from a patient,
modifying them in the laboratory, and reinserting them to cure cancer or other
diseases.

   This is the so-called ''ex vivo'' process that was used five years ago in the
first application of gene therapy to two Ohio girls, Ashanthi DeSilva and
Cynthia Cutshall. So far all successful gene therapy treatments have used this
technique.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995


                             168 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                    September 3, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1775 words

HEADLINE: State's future in biotech field is uncertain

BYLINE: Timothy J. Mullaney, Sun Staff Writer

BODY:


   Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg was to be honored this fall as the No. 1
pick in the "Fast 40" high-growth high-tech companies in Maryland. Then Genetic
Therapy said in July it will be taken over by the Swiss drug giant Sandoz AG,
whose U.S. headquarters border the scenic Passaic River in East Hanover, N.J.

   Thomas P. Stagnaro became one of Maryland's best-regarded business leaders by
nurturing 7-year-old Univax Biologics Inc. from nothing into a company that was
expected to reach $ 100 million in sales by 1999. Gov. Parris N. Glendening put
Mr. Stagnaro on the state's economic development commission. But he's moving to
Florida, thanks to last week's deal to sell Univax to North American Biologicals
Inc. of Boca Raton.

   Six weeks, two deals, and almost half a billion dollars. With a few strokes
of some pens, Maryland's nascent biotechnology industry has been transformed.
And where that will take an industry in which state and local economic
development strategists have invested years and millions of dollars, in hopes of
home-growing an industry to serve as one of the state's job cornerstones for the
post-industrial era, is not yet clear.

   "Is it more challenging? It probably is. But that doesn't mean it's
impossible," said James T. Brady, Maryland's secretary of business and economic
development. "It's part of a long game. It's not for the faint of heart."

   Only months ago, Maryland had a half-dozen biotech companies poised to turn
profitable by about 1998. Less than a decade after most of Maryland's 68 biotech
companies were formed, the 5,000 Maryland jobs in the industry, mostly in
research, were set to blossom into many times more as the drugs the young
companies are developing reached the market.

   But everyone knew that the last two or three years before commercialization
would be tough, because almost every company would have to raise tens of
millions of dollars or more to build factories and sales forces to go with their
research teams. And everyone knew that one risk was that companies would need to
sell out in order to raise the cash.

   "Tom had a problem: They were separated from success by a bunch of dollars he
had to get a hold of," a sympathetic rival biotech chief executive said, saying
Univax took another hit in July when a different drug it was researching didn't
work in clinical trials. "He is not the CEO any more, so I'm sure it's not
something he spent every waking moment trying to engineer."

   "I would like to pay back the state, but you've got to make those kinds of
decisions," Mr. Stagnaro said. Univax still needed $ 50 million to get its first
product on the market, and North American had a key factory already built and
the financial muscle to do the rest.

   What no one knew in June was that two leading Maryland biotech companies
would go so quickly. No one knows now what will happen next.

   The $ 150 million Univax deal will have one immediate impact. The Rockville
company had been negotiating with the state for help in financing a dual-purpose
manufacturing plant in Western Maryland, where Univax planned to make vaccines
and to process human plasma to isolate antibodies used to make other drugs.
Since North American is building a plasma plant in Florida, that part of the
Maryland plan is off, Mr. Stagnaro said.

   "That's definitely going to happen in Boca," said Mr. Stagnaro, who said the
dual-purpose plant would have added 50 jobs that would have paid between $
30,000 and $ 70,000 a year. "Those jobs are going to be lost to Maryland and
that's unfortunate. But to duplicate [the Florida plant] would have cost $ 20
million."

   But both Genetic Therapy and Univax say they are going to keep their research
staffs in Maryland. Univax may even move North American's researchers here from
Florida, but North American has only four scientists because it is much more
active in selling plasma to drug companies than in researching its own drugs.

   "We don't expect anything to move," Genetic Therapy Chief Executive M. James
Barrett said. Genetic Therapy, which will still be at the top of the Greater
Baltimore Committee's "Fast 40" list despite the buyout, doesn't have any
products that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has yet allowed on the
general market, so its manufacturing needs are minor. Its staff of 160 is about
80 percent researchers.

   But even though two Maryland biotech leaders will now report to headquarters
elsewhere, and remaining biotech companies face the same obstacles that could
force more mergers, most experts are still fairly optimistic about the Maryland
industry's future.

   They say that the jobs here will likely remain and that the state will
continue to be a leading center for growth in biotech research, an area in which
jobs often pay $ 80,000 or more a year.

   The reason: In a research-based business, knowledge is power. The fact that
scientists make the companies go, and that scientists who start biotech
companies often come out of local research centers such as Johns Hopkins and the
National Institutes of Health, means that the people whom the new corporate
bosses have to please have roots here.

   "Where intellectual property is the key issue, a lot of the assets walk away
every night to go home," Mr. Barrett said. "The intellectual property businesses
are critically dependent on the knowledge of the staff. You're far less inclined
to make massive shifts in location."

   Indeed, other biotech companies that made alliances with drug giants have
kept their growth close to their original home.

   Genentech Inc. was one of the first successful biotech companies, and the
Swiss drug company Roche Holdings Inc. has owned a de facto controlling stake in
Genentech since 1990.

   Nonetheless, spokeswoman Kathleen Rinehart said, the company has added 900
jobs since 1990 and 90 percent of its 2,800 workers continue to work in the San
Francisco area, where the company was founded.

   Similarly, Chiron Corp. has been 49.5 percent owned by Ciba-Geigy Ltd.,
another Swiss drug company with U.S. headquarters about 15 miles from Sandoz's
New Jersey office, since January. Yet spokesman Larry Kurtz said the firm
recently committed to a 2.2 million square foot expansion of its Emeryville,
Calif., campus that will concentrate Chiron's growth in the Bay area for the
next 30 years.

   "It's fair to say the intellectual capital is the source of value in these
companies," Mr. Kurtz said. Chiron's staff wants to live in a stimulating
environment such as San Francisco so much, and is so hard to duplicate
elsewhere, that the company tolerates operating costs Mr. Kurtz says are
probably higher than any U.S. area other than Manhattan.

   Chiron may create new jobs in Maryland as well. Last week, the company
announced a deal with Univax that could add up to 15 new drugs to Univax's
product pipeline, which has only six major drugs under development now.

   That research is to be done in Rockville, though how many jobs it will spin
off -- and how soon -- is not yet known.

   The tougher question is whether out-of-state control of Maryland biotech
research will hurt the state's chances to attract the plants where the companies
will manufacture the drugs once they are on the market. One leading economist
said the takeovers may hurt those chances, but in some ways the deals may
actually help.

   "Now Jim Brady has some standing to call the chairman of Sandoz and go visit,
and he ought to do it," said Charles McMillion, president of MBG Information
Services in Washington. Mr. McMillion said once Sandoz has business in Maryland,
the state may actually be able to attract expansion by other Sandoz divisions as
well as keep Genetic Therapy.

   Mr. McMillion said takeovers by financially stronger companies could also
help Maryland compete against states that get their growth the old-fashioned
way: by subsidizing it.

   A Sandoz may be likelier to make decisions based on strategic factors such as
the high numbers of scientists in the Washington area, or the proximity to
Rockville-based FDA regulators, because it can get money to build factories
without the state's help, Mr. McMillion said. Many future mergers will probably
find Washington-area biotech firms as buyers rather than targets, said Bill
Washecka, head of the high-tech practice for the accounting firm of Ernst &
Young and co-author of an influential biotech industry annual report.

   He said the trick for the state is to identify likely winners such as Human
Genome Sciences Inc. of Rockville, which is developing drugs based on advances
in genetic sequencing, and to give them early help with strings attached that
make it prohibitively expensive for the company to leave Maryland.

   Overall, though, Maryland's advantages -- and possible disadvantages -- in
luring biotech manufacturing aren't much affected by the takeovers. Biotech
executives such as Mr. Stagnaro say they want to keep manufacturing close to the
research operations, especially at the early stages when engineers are still
figuring out the best ways to make the new products.

   But even companies that are still headquartered in Maryland have been willing
to move manufacturing out of state for the right deal.

   Martek Biosciences Corp. of Maryland bought a plant in Kentucky this year and
MedImmune Inc. of Gaithersburg has announced tentative plans to manufacture in
Ohio. However, MedImmune has met with Maryland government leaders to discuss a
counteroffer to the financial incentives Ohio officials offered. Martek chief
Pete Linsert has said the company moved manufacturing out of state because it
got a used plant for about a third of what it would have cost to build here.

   "It doesn't really matter where corporate headquarters are," said David
Ramsay, president of the University of Maryland at Baltimore and an expert in
the process of converting academic science into commercial products. "As
communications get better and better, you don't have to have everything in the
same place."

   While the mergers move control of many Maryland companies' futures outside
the state and could hamper the industry's growth in the state, biotech
entrepreneurs and their enthusiasts in government and academia stress the gains
that have already occurred.

   Biotech already has created 5,000 Maryland jobs, and the buyers of Genetic
Therapy and Univax agreed to pay $ 445 million for companies that didn't exist
nine years ago.

   "Maryland is going to get a lot of income taxes from this," said Mr. Barrett,
who has scheduled sessions with accountants to help his staff hold down the
government's share of the buyout. "All of our people had options."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 1, Thomas P. Stagnaro nurtured promising Univax until it was sold
to Florida-based North American last week.; PHOTO 2, SUN FILE PHOTOS,
Gaithersburg-based Genetic Therapy was picked as the top high-growth high-tech
company in the state.; PHOTO 3, M. James Barrett, president of Genetic Therapy,
expects no jobs to be moved from the state.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995


                             169 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   September 2, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 15C

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Young, growing companies shine in spotlight of GBC's 'Fast 40' list

BYLINE: Timothy J. Mullaney, Sun Staff Writer

BODY:


   Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg is Maryland's fastest-growing
biotechnology company, and a Beltsville-based Internet access provider, Digital
Express Group Inc., is the fastest-growing information company in the state,
according to the new "Fast 40" list released yesterday by the Greater Baltimore
Committee.

   The list promotes young and often little-known companies by recognizing their
early accomplishments, in hopes that the spotlight will help them attract
venture capital and make contacts with investment bankers, said Victor Hoskins,
assistant secretary for marketing at the state Department of Business and
Economic Development.

   "It's really to recognize them now for where they're going. It provides them,
No. 1, with exposure because a lot of them aren't well known," Mr. Hoskins said.
"These are some of the employers of the future. These are some of the employers
now."

   The GBC said 16 companies on the Maryland list also made a national "Fast
500" list.

   Stewart D. Frankel, managing director of Grotech Capital Group Inc. of
Timonium, one of the state's leading venture capital firms, endorsed the survey
for the same reason.

   "It's like anything else -- it creates excitement and visibility," Mr.
Frankel said. "These companies are mostly not name-brand companies."

   "Excellent! Not bad," said Digital Express Chairman Doug Humphrey, whose
company has grown to 85 employees from 15 a year ago and projects $ 10 million
in sales this year. "When you're such a small company it's difficult to get the
word out that you're growing at such a rate."

   The top 40 includes many familiar names. Integrated Health Services Inc., an
Owings Mills-based operator of care facilities for patients who don't need a
full array of hospital services, is the biggest on the list, at No. 8.

   Noise Cancellation Technologies Inc. of Linthicum ranked 18th; Martek
Biosciences Corp. of Columbia was 23rd; and Sylvan Learning Systems Inc., also
of Columbia, ranked 25th.

   The top 10 companies, ranked by the percentage their sales grew from 1990 to
1994, are Genetic Therapy, to be acquired by Sandoz AG for $ 295 million;
Digital Express; HCIA Inc., a Baltimore medical information firm; Neocera Inc.
of Columbia; A&L Shatto Inc., a Bel Air engineering firm; ComPro Systems Inc. of
Jessup; RWD Technologies Inc. of Columbia; Integrated Health; Telecommunications
Systems Inc. of Annapolis; and Information Systems and Services Inc. of Silver
Spring.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995


                             170 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            August 31, 1995 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: GENE MAPPING AHEAD OF SCHEDULE, ALREADY PROVING ITS WORTH

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Thursday, August 31, 1995 GENE MAPPING AHEAD OF SCHEDULE, ALREADY PROVING ITS
WORTH

   Summary: Results produced in the first five years of the Human Genome Project
are being used by virtually every biomedical scientist

   The Human Genome Project has flowered so quickly that scientists already  are
beginning to usher in an era of molecular medicine that uses new  approaches to
the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease.

   So says Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Center for Human
Genome Research at the National Institutes of Health, which is the agency that
supports genome project research in the United States.

   ``We have here a federally funded project which is ahead of schedule and
under budget, so that should be some reason to celebrate,'' Collins said in an
interview. He was recently at Oregon Health Sciences University speaking about
the impact of the Human Genome Project on the future of medicine.

   Gene mapping is about two years ahead of schedule, and sequencing, in many
ways the hardest part of the project, is under way. That will get every A, C,
G, T of the DNA language deciphered and put into a public data base, Collins
said.

   (The hereditary instructions are written in a four-letter code, with each
letter corresponding to one of the chemicals that make up DNA: A -- adenine, G
--guanine, C --cytosine, T -- thymine).

   Five years ago, it took a certain amount of faith to believe that  technology
would come along and make sequencing happen. Now researchers are  optimistic
that it can be done by 2002, he said.

   But the nice feature of the Human Genome Project is you don't have to wait
until it is done to use it, Collins said.

   The genetic maps produced in the first five years are being used by
virtually every biomedical scientist, he said.

   Here are excerpts from the interview with Collins about the impact of the
human genome project:

   Q: How is the Human Genome project contributing to medicine right now?

   A: I think it is coming in two phases. The first is more a predictive phase
where in knowing what genes predispose individuals to say, breast cancer, it
becomes possible to find out by DNA test who is at high risk. That is already
being done on a research basis for breast cancer, colon cancer, Alzheimer's
disease and a few others.

   Q: What is the value of information about possible future illness?

   A: It can be enormously beneficial. If you know that you are at high risk
for colon cancer, for example, and you can get into a program to watch for
those small polyps while they are benign and easy to deal with, you can save
lives of people who otherwise would have died of metastatic disease.

   Q: What happens when people find they are at risk for a disease doctors
can't do much for?

   A: I'm not sure everybody will be happy about that -- sort of being given
this black cloud to follow them around. And there is also the concern about
whether the information can even be used against people.

   Q: You're talking ethical issues.

   A: Yes. You can't separate the scientific and medical parts of this from  the
ethical, legal and social consequences when you come to DNA testing. It is all
part of the same package for the person being tested.

   Q: So we are moving into a phase where we can make some predictions about
individual susceptibility, but it might not result in treatment?

   A: This is preventive medicine that allows an individual to know the things
they are really at risk for rather than things they are not. Most of the
preventive medicine we do right now is kind of generic one-size-fits all, but
we don't all have the same predispositions so why should we all follow the  same
recommendations?

   Q: What is the second phase you mentioned?

   A: In the longer term, the second phase of the consequences of the genome
project will be cures where you can fix the problem instead of just making
predictions about it. So that instead of being told you have a five-fold risk
of getting Alzheimer's disease by age 60, you will be given a treatment of  some
sort which basically takes the problem away.

   Q: New medicines?

   A: It might be gene therapy, might be a drug therapy. It will come, but I
think those steps for most diseases lie years away. The prediction part is
right upon us now. The correction part, I'm talking about manent correction,  is
some ways off.

   Q: What happens in the interim?

   A: I think many people will say: ``Yeah sure, test my DNA. Tell me about  the
things I can do something about and increase my chances of living a long  and
happy life by simple lifestyle changes and surveillance.'' I would do  that. It
seems like a pretty good investment in staying healthy.

   Q: Would you do it if your insurance company and employer could find out?

   A: Ah, ha, that's a very important part of the whole package, and we have
made some progress in that arena, but we still have a little ways to go.  Within
the last three months it has been made illegal at the federal level to  refuse a
job to somebody based on the results of a genetic test. That was a  very
important ruling by the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission with  language
basically predicated on the Americans With Disabilities Act. Now the  big
struggle is to apply the same arguments successfully to health insurance.  Ten
states have done that, including Oregon. The governor signed your bill  about a
month ago, and it is a pretty good bill.

   ILLUSTRATION: Photo -- DR. FRANCIS COLLINS

   Graphic -- Illustration and diagrams -- BREAKING THE GENETIC CODE - Hundreds
of scientists around the world are taking part in the mapping and analysis of
the human genome, the fundamental genetic information that directs human life
and growth.  Human cell, Chromosome, Gene, DNA

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             171 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    August 31, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: WEEKLY - MARYLAND; Pg.  M01

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Project Helps Families Cope With Rare Illnesses

BYLINE: Alison Stuebe, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Linda Shine framed her daughter Katie's note cards, wrapping the irises and
purple-sponge rectangles in a modest wooden rim that will be one reminder of the
little girl who started playing with easels and paints when she was 2 years old.

   Katie Shine, 6, doesn't paint by herself anymore because her body can't break
down the toxic chemicals that are spilling into her brain in earnest. Katie has
Sanfilippo's syndrome, a rare genetic disease that begins dissolving children's
lives at age 2 or 3, leading to mental retardation, clawed fingers and stunted
growth. On average, victims die by age 14.

   But the Shines aren't thinking about that right now. The Howard County family
is selling Katie's note cards to raise money for research on Katie's disorder,
one of thousands of "orphan diseases" so rare that drug companies and government
funding agencies are reluctant to devote major resources to seeking a cure.

   For parents like the Shines who are powerless to block the deterioration of
their children's lives, note cards, raffles, Little League tournaments and other
fund-raisers offer a way to hope.

   "I have to do something," said Sue Rattman, of Joppa, Md., whose 6-year-old
son, Adam, has Hunter's syndrome, one of six diseases -- including Katie's --
known as mucopolysaccharide disorders.

   The Rattmans and the Shines are among four Maryland families who have
organized to sell Christmas cards and a 1996 calendar made from their children's
drawings, as well as T-shirts and baseball caps with the logo of the
Mucopolysaccharide Society, a New York-based support group and research grant
agency.

   "If you look at it really hard-line," Rattman said, "my son has a terminal
illness, and he's going to die. I can't just let that happen and not do
anything."

   Katie's cards, sold for $ 6 in packs of eight, already have raised almost $
2,000 for the society.

   "It was my way of immortalizing her," said Linda Shine, explaining that the
growing note card and calendar project has been named Katieworks. "Even when
Katie isn't here, there will be a part of fund-raising called Katieworks, and
that will continue."

   Katie is one of fewer than 500 children worldwide with Sanfilippo's syndrome.
Since their daughter's illness was diagnosed three years ago, the Shines have
watched her development slow and then reverse, as she returned to diapers and
gradually lost her ability to speak. This summer, she's begun to stumble,
struggling to walk down stairs in their Ellicott City home and tripping when she
tries to run too fast.

   "Especially with the rare diseases, it's helpful for parents to feel they are
doing something for the betterment of other kids down the road," said Julie
Rutberg, a genetic counselor who works with families at Johns Hopkins Hospital.
"If they can raise money now, that's going to offer hope down the line."

   About 2,000 children worldwide have one of the MPS disorders, which are among
the orphan diseases that afflict about 20 million Americans, according to the
National Organization for Rare Disorders. The Orphan Disease Act of 1983
provided tax breaks and other incentives to drug companies that develop
treatments for rare disorders, but research is hampered by the relatively tiny
potential market for cures and treatments.

   The 10 to 15 researchers who do study the MPS disorders know that children
suffering from the diseases lack enzymes that process worn-out material that
once held cells together. As the material builds in the lysosomes, which
function as cellular septic tanks, they become clogged with waste, poisoning the
cell.

   Gene therapy treatments would inject the missing enzymes into the body,
providing a kind of lysosomal Draino to purge built-up waste and return the
cells to normal.

   "The problem is that to make an adequate amount of this enzyme is very, very
expensive, and you're talking about a handful of patients," said David Valle, a
Johns Hopkins pediatrician who treats Katie. "You just can't go to the pharmacy
and find a bottle of this stuff."

   It's an economic reality that underlies one of MPS Society vice president
Joan Cohen's worst fears -- that even if treatments are developed, no company
may see an economic incentive to produce and market them.

   Cohen, whose son Adam, 15, has Hunter's syndrome, helps run the MPS Society
out of her four-room apartment in Hicksville, N.Y. She coordinates conferences,
updates membership lists and talks with other parents about special summer camps
and potential research breakthroughs.

   She says the society raises about $ 100,000 a year from dues and donations,
money it allocates to research, conferences and a society newsletter designed to
tie together scattered families coping with the diseases.

   "You just don't stop fighting for your children even if you know there's no
hope at the end," said Cohen, who pours at least 25 hours a week into the
society. "You don't even think about what you're doing. You just can't stop
yourself."


GRAPHIC: Photo, james a. parcell , Linda Shine, of Ellicott City, is supporting
research of rare genetic diseases by selling note cards made from her daughter's
drawings. Katie, 6, has Sanfilippo's syndrome.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995


                             172 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    August 29, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Rockville-based Univax to be sold to Florida company

BYLINE: Timothy J. Mullaney, Sun Staff Writer

BODY:


   For the second time in six weeks, a promising Maryland biotechnology company
will be sold to an out-of-state buyer, as Univax Biologics Inc. of Rockville
said yesterday it has agreed to be acquired by North American Biologicals Inc.
in a deal worth about $ 8.21 a share.

   The buyout of Univax, which took a huge step toward profitability when its
drug to treat a common AIDS complication won federal marketing approval in
March, follows the announcement July 10 that Swiss drug giant Sandoz AG would
acquire Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg.

   "It works out to a $ 150 million transaction," said Virgil Cilli, an analyst
at Keane Securities in New York who follows North American Biologicals. "It
didn't come cheaply."

   The merged company will be based in Boca Raton, Fla., but Univax said there
will be almost no reduction in the company's 130 Maryland jobs, which pay an
average of $ 70,000 annually.

   The takeover, which was designed to unite Univax's strengths in science, drug
testing and relations with federal drug regulators with North American's
superior financial strength and manufacturing capability, set the stage for
Univax's other major announcement of the day.

   Univax also announced a long-term research and development deal with one of
the biotechnology industry's leaders, Chiron Corp. of Emeryville, Calif., a deal
that relies on technologies Univax and North American developed separately.

   Many of the drugs Univax is developing are made by injecting plasma donors
with agents that will make their bodies create disease-fighting antibodies,
which Univax then isolates from the rest of the plasma. To do that on a large
scale, Univax needs large numbers of plasma donors and the mechanical capability
to isolate the disease-fighting agents from the rest of the fluid.

   North American already has 250,000 donors, has a pilot separation plant, and
is developing a larger one. The company sells plasma to more than 60 drug
companies, including Univax.

   Chiron makes vaccines, but most of its products don't help people who already
have diseases. Chiron's deal with Univax gives the Maryland company exclusive
rights to use the vaccines as a base to develop drugs that can fight the same
diseases once a patient becomes sick.

   "It's an outlet for our technology that we had no expertise for developing
internally," Chiron spokesman Larry Kurtz said. "You need a donor network, you
need [plasma] collection centers, you need a manufacturing expertise and you
need clinical and regulatory expertise. Their merged organization does those
very well."

   In exchange for the rights to develop Chiron vaccines, the merged
Univax/North American will pay Chiron royalties on product sales and "milestone"
payments based on progress in research before any products are on the market.

   The price North American agreed to pay for 7-year-old Univax, which had only
$ 2.8 million in sales last year and has not yet turned a profit, highlights the
explosive potential of an industry Maryland officials have worked hard to
nurture.

   But the fact that the sale happened at all highlights how hard it is for
entrepreneurs to raise the hundreds of millions of dollars they need to develop
pioneering drugs, learn how to manufacture them and get them approved by federal
regulators before their companies can deliver big profits and spin off hundreds
or thousands of jobs.

   Shekhar Basu, an analyst who follows Univax for the New York securities firm
Punk, Ziegel, & Knoell, estimated that Univax would have had to spend $ 50
million to $ 75 million to build a plasma donor base and manufacturing
capability.

   Prospects for raising that money were uncertain, Mr. Basu said, in part
because Univax had a setback in May when it disclosed that a key new drug to
prevent staph infections worked poorly in clinical trials. That news notably
cooled off Wall Street, where one analyst had projected that Univax shares would
rise as high as $ 19 by the spring of 1996.

   The research failure led Univax to lay off about 40 people at its Rockville
headquarters, despite the FDA approval of the AIDS-complication drug WinRho SD,
which is expected to generate up to $ 100 million in annual sales by 1999. The
layoffs were designed to assure that the company had enough money to survive
until WinRho took off.

   "Without this transaction, it would have taken Univax a long time to grow,"
Mr. Basu said. "What Univax gets is access to capital, it becomes profitable
within a year, and gets manufacturing and plasma donor facilities it would have
taken a long time to get."

   It also gets about $ 150 million of stock of North American Biologicals.
Univax shareholders will get .79 of a share of North American for each Univax
share they hold. North American Biologicals closed at $ 10.375 yesterday. The
deal requires approval from both companies' shareholders and North American's
lender.

   Univax will not get a huge premium above its current stock price. Univax
shares actually fell slightly on the news, closing down 12.5 cents at $ 8. Wall
Street was no happier with North American Biologicals, pushing those shares down
81.25 cents.

   "Short-term, it does nothing for [North American], and it could hurt," Mr.
Cilli said, contending that North American is paying too much for an unproven
company.

UNIVAX AT A GLANCE

   Headquarters: Rockville

   Employees: 130

   Founded: 1988

   CEO: Thomas P. Stagnaro

   1994 sales: $ 2.8 million

   1994 loss: $ 21.8 million

   Key product: WinRho SD, approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration in
March. WinRho fights an AIDS complication that causes the body to destroy its
own platelets, thus reducing the body's ability to stop bleeding and resist
bruising. The disease occurs in about 68,000 U.S. patients a year, including
50,000 who develop the syndrome as a result of HIV infection. WinRho is also
used to treat Blue Baby Syndrome, an immune reaction in newborns. .

   Key setback: In May, the company announced that its StaphVAX drug did not
work as projected in clinical trials. StaphVAX was designed to treat people with
a chronic risk of staph infection, mostly kidney dialysis patients.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995


                             173 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            August 29, 1995 Tuesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: `PHARMING' MAY BECOME RICH FUTURE FOR AGRICULTURE

BYLINE: WALTER TRUETT ANDERSON

BODY:

   Tuesday, August 29, 1995 `PHARMING' MAY BECOME RICH FUTURE FOR AGRICULTURE

   Summary: Genetically modified tobacco used to grow pharmaceuticals

   If and when America ever gets completely out of the cigarette business,
tobacco farmers may find salvation in -- oddity of oddities -- growing  tobacco.

   A new kind of high-tech agriculture is moving rapidly from the stage of
laboratory testing to economic reality. It's called ``pharming,'' and it's
based on genetically modifying plants so that they produce chemicals with
pharmaceutical uses. Tobacco is certain to play a major role in this new
agriculture.

   The first pharm product -- a sunscreen based on human melanin grown in
tobacco plants -- is now on the market in Europe and awaiting regulatory
approval in the United States.

   Tobacco plants can also be modified to produce various other chemicals such
as human antibodies for medical research or therapy. In fact, several writers
on the subject of pharming have pointed out the strange but distinctly likely
possibility that tobacco farms growing lung-cancer medicine will be a part of
America's agricultural future.

   - Potatoes another good host

   Tobacco isn't the only plant that is being turned into a medicine factory.
Others now in the testing stage include potatoes that carry serum albumin -- a
blood protein used in surgery -- and rapeseed containing a painkilling  chemical
called enkephalin that occurs naturally in the human brain.  Researchers in Asia
are excited about using rubber trees to produce the  heart-attack medicine TPA.

   There is also an animal side of pharming, based on breeding cattle, sheep
and pigs whose milk contains medical products such as a hormone called
alpha-1-antitripsyn that is used to treat emphysema.

   But tobacco seems to be the favorite for researchers in this field. It
happens to be a plant that agricultural scientists have studied extensively
over the years. Its genetic structure is, as they say, ``well  characterized.''

   There are two different ways that scientists can modify tobacco plants: One
is a combination of high-tech genetic engineering and old-fashioned selective
breeding. They splice genes into embryonic plant cells and then grow them to
maturity, repeatedly cross-breeding them with other similarly modified plants
until they have a whole new crop line.

   - Virus used as genetic hacker

   But a company in California, Bioresource Technologies, has a different
approach. Instead of splicing new genes into the plant, they splice them into
the tobacco mosaic virus that infects the plant. The virus -- a natural  genetic
hacker -- then takes over the job of introducing the gene into the  plant,
causing its cells to produce whatever protein the gene holds  instructions for.
The tobacco leaves are then harvested and ground up, and the resultant proteins
-- such as the anti-cancer drug interleukin-2 -- are  extracted and purified.

   The company's CEO calls this method ``geneware'' -- short for genetic
software -- and says it takes less time than the other approach and produces
higher yields. This is the technology that is being used to manufacture the
sunscreen, and it also shows promise as a way of modifying tobacco plants to
produce food supplements such as bran-like fiber and edible protein.

   Using genetically modified plants to produce medicines may sound like
something from a science-fiction novel, but many observers are convinced that
pharming will be a practical and commercially profitable reality much sooner
than more highly-touted biotechnological wonders such as gene therapy.

   Although it's impossible at this early stage to say how big a part of
American agriculture it may become, it's not entirely fanciful to imagine
tobacco farmers of the not-too-distant future growing products for hospitals,
home medicine cabinets and perhaps even breakfast tables.

   And not a cough in a carload.

   Copyright(c) 1995,

   Walter Truett Anderson, a fellow of the Meridian International Institute,  is
a political scientist whose next book is entitled ``Evolution Now: The
Augmented Animal and the Whole Wired World.'' He is also an associate editor  at
Pacific News Service, 604 Mission St., San Francisco, CA 94105.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             174 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                    AUGUST 29, 1995, TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: S.F. Scientists' Make Unexpected Cancer Discovery
 Researchers were trying to lower bad cholester

BYLINE: David Perlman, Chronicle Science Editor

BODY:

    San Francisco researchers experimenting with gene therapy as a new approach
to preventing heart disease have instead discovered an unexpected clue to the
genes that can bring on cancer.

   The finding is expected to open an entirely new direction for research into
the role that genes can play in turning normal cells malignant.

   It also offers a fresh example of the useful surprises that basic science so
often yields -- in this case, scientists focusing on the puzzles of heart
disease have turned up fresh insights into a wholly different deadly disorder.

   Although the specific gene therapy experiment turned out to highlight
potential dangers, a different version of the technique could ultimately yield a
new approach to lowering levels of harmful cholesterol in the blood -- a major
cause of heart disease, which is America's most common cause of death, the
scientists say.

   GLADSTONE INSTITUTE

   The research report, being released today, comes from a team headed by Dr.
Thomas L. Innerarity of the Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases at
San Francisco General Hospital.

   The scientists have been tinkering with the genetic machinery that controls
production of the dangerous form of cholesterol that can clog arteries and cause
fatal heart attacks.

   The group has been experimenting with mice and rabbits, which they altered to
carry a human gene that normally produces the heart-threatening form of
cholesterol known as low density lipoprotein, or LDL. The experiments showed
they could in fact lower the so-called bad cholesterol just as they had hoped --
but they also found that the altered genetic machinery had unexpectedly created
a new class of lethal cancer-causing proteins.

   The genes of all living cells are made up of segments of the molecule called
DNA, and they use other molecules known as messenger RNA to copy the DNA and
send precisely coded instructions for making all the proteins necessary for life
to other parts of the cells where the proteins are made.

   MESSENGER RNA OF ANIMALS

   In Innerarity's laboratory, Dr. Shinya Yamanaka, a surgeon now researching
molecular biology, attempted to alter the code of one specific segment of
messenger RNA in the animals so that instead of instructing the cells to make
LDL, their genetic machinery would create a different and harmless protein.

   Yamanaka and the Gladstone team experimented with that concept by inserting a
specialized human protein into the livers of the animals, hoping that the
protein would ''edit'' the code for LDL in their messenger RNA. It did, but the
experiment also yielded a totally unexpected result.

   The altered messenger RNA created an entirely new and shortened form of the
LDL protein that acted as an ''oncogene'' -- causing the animals' liver cells to
turn cancerous and grow wildly out of control.

   Oncogenes are genes that have mutated to express their genetic code by
causing many types of cancer, and dozens of human oncogenes are known. But until
now they have been associated only with DNA, the basic molecules of heredity.

   The new experiments in Innerarity's laboratory mark the first time that
messenger RNA rather than DNA has been known to function as a cancer-causing
oncogene.

   SWITCH IN EMPHASIS

   Innerarity, a senior scientist at the Gladstone Institute and professor of
pathology at University of California at San Francisco, said yesterday that
although he is basically a heart researcher, he is now planning experiments to
learn whether many other types of cancer can be brought on by oncogenes formed
from altered messenger RNA rather than from DNA, a possibility unsuspected until
now.

   If that is possible, Innerarity said, the finding would add new basic
knowledge to help explain the complex processes that can transform so many types
of normal human cells into malignant tumors and also send his research group to
try different strategies leading to new gene therapy efforts at heart disease
prevention.

   The team's first report on the experiments is being published today in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995


                             175 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      AUGUST 28, 1995 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: CHEMOTHERAPY, BEFORE BREAST CANCER SURGERY PREOPERATIVE DRUG THERAPY,
ONCE CONSIDERED RADICAL, IS FAST BECOMING MAINSTREAM.

BYLINE: Marie McCullough, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   When Joyce Friedman learned she had a large cancerous tumor in her breast,
her fear of the disease was compounded by the prospect of a mastectomy.

   Then her surgeon suggested an innovative treatment: chemotherapy before, as
well as after, surgery. That would mean delaying removal of her tumor for
several months, but the first round of drugs might shrink it, enabling him to
perform a lumpectomy instead.

   Today, six years after taking the gamble, the 56-year-old accounting
supervisor has had no recurrence of the disease. And she still has two breasts.

   "I figured I had nothing to lose by trying the chemotherapy first," she said
from her King of Prussia home. "And the more I read about breast cancer, the
more I think I did the right thing."

   "It's pretty clear," agreed Thomas G. Frazier, her surgical oncologist at
Bryn Mawr Hospital, "that for women with larger tumors, it's an excellent
approach."

   Over the past decade, as more and more doctors have offered preoperative
chemical or hormonal therapy as an option for women with advanced breast cancer,
the question has become whether the approach should be standard for all
patients.

   Although tumor shrinkage is the most recognized benefit of giving
chemotherapy first, there may be other advantages. In an article in the July/
August issue of the cancer journal CA, oncologist Gianni Bonadonna of Italy's
National Tumor Institute in Milan, a pioneer in the use of preoperative
chemotherapy, said the most important benefit seems to be the early elimination
of undetected cancer cells that have spread throughout the body.

   Breast cancer is divided into four stages, depending on the extent of the
disease. Key factors are tumor size, lymph-node condition and the extent to
which the cancer has clearly spread, or metastasized.

   For stage 4, in which cancer has metastasized, chemotherapy is given
immediately.

   For stage 3 cancers - large breast tumors (more than five centimeters) and
cancerous lymph nodes - chemotherapy up front has clear advantages. In most
cases, it shrinks tumors, qualifying more women for lumpectomies. More
important, their long-term survival rates are no worse - and in some studies,
better - than with traditional treatment, namely mastectomy followed by
chemotherapy.

   About 20 percent of patients given preoperative therapy have had no response
to the treatment, Bonadonna found in reviewing the research. On the other hand,
it appears that about 10 percent of cancers disappeared with chemotherapy before
surgery.

   Jean Taraborelli, 47, a teacher at William Penn Charter School in
Philadelphia, was among the lucky few. Two years ago, preoperative therapy
caused complete remission of her seven-centimeter tumor and cancerous lymph
nodes.

   "It's the largest tumor I've ever seen disappear," said her surgeon, Gordon
Schwartz of Thomas Jefferson University Hospital.

   "Every case is different," Taraborelli said. "I just didn't want part of my
body lopped off if I could avoid it."

   But the picture is more complex for early-stage cancer patients. In stage 1,
tumors are very small and lymph nodes clear. Stage 2 tumors are up to five
centimeters, with or without cancerous nodes. In both stages, most patients
qualify for lumpectomy from the start, so the merits of postponing surgery to
administer chemotherapy first are not clear. Traditionally, they would undergo
surgery, followed by radiation and chemotherapy.

   "With the two- to three-centimeter tumor, there are so many variables. It's
very, very complicated, and the discussion with an individual woman can take
several hours," said John H. Glick, director of the University of Pennsylvania
Cancer Center.

   That's why the medical world is eagerly awaiting the results of studies being
conducted through the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project
(NSABP) in Pittsburgh. It is now assessing three things in stage 1 and 2
patients: whether chemotherapy before surgery improves their survival rates;
whether the amount of tumor shrinkage is a measure of their chances of survival;
and whether the approach permits more lumpectomies while reducing tumor
recurrences.

   Even without the answers, some physicians are convinced that preoperative
chemotherapy is superior.

   Schwartz and his colleagues at Jefferson found that preoperative chemotherapy
dramatically improved survival rates for their stage 3 breast cancer patients,
so they began offering it to stage 2 patients. Although his sample is small,
Schwartz is enthusiastic.

   Of 50 stage 2 patients followed through 1993, 88 percent saw their tumors or
lymph nodes shrink, and 60 percent were able to undergo lumpectomies. After five
years, 71 percent were disease-free and 78 percent were alive.

   The expected survival rate after five years with traditional treatment,
according to the American Cancer Society, is between 65 percent and 75 percent.

   "I think I am evangelical about it, but . . . I believe in it," Schwartz
said. "We have to educate everybody about the value" of it.

   The growing interest in preoperative therapy is part of the evolution of
breast cancer treatment.

   A century ago, when the radical mastectomy was developed, doctors thought
cancer spread out from the breast in a continuous way. They figured the key to
survival was cutting away the breast and nearby tissue as quickly as possible.

   About 20 years ago, Dr. Bernard Fisher, former chairman and now scientific
director of the NSABP, offered an alternative view. He theorized that breast
cancer cells spread through the body for years before they can be detected. The
bigger the tumor, he reasoned, the more cells have spread. He and other
chemotherapy pioneers improved survival rates by attacking the cancer not only
where it was evident, but throughout the body.

   "When we started to use chemotherapy in the early 1970s, many doctors
thought, 'Look at these guys. They're just making our patients sick,' " said
Gabriel N. Hortobagyi, a professor of medicine and oncology at the M.D. Anderson
Center in Houston. "Whenever there is a change in thinking, it takes another
generation to accept it."

   Other theories about breast cancer growth are now being tested. For example,
animal studies suggest that surgical removal of a tumor speeds up the growth of
remaining cells. If so, preoperative chemotherapy might head off such growth.

   Someday, Hortobagyi and Fisher think, whole-body treatments, including gene
therapies now being developed, could virtually eliminate the need for surgery.

   "It's not that far away," Fisher said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;

PHOTO (1)
1. For Jean Taraborelli, 47, preoperative chemotherapy proved a success.
After treatment, her breast cancer went into complete remission. (For The
Inquirer, CHERIE KEMPER-STARNER)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             176 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 25, 1995, Friday, REGION EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A17

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Pitt center would be part of disease fight

BYLINE: Byron Spice, Science Editor, Post-Gazette

BODY:


   A parents group wants to make the University of Pittsburgh a
multidisciplinary center for the experimental treatment of Duchenne muscular
dystrophy -- as soon as it can scrape up a few million bucks.

   But the year-old group, the Parent Project for Muscular Dystrophy Research,
has set its goal: Finding a treatment or cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy
within five years.

   That goal is ambitious, admits Dan Janquitto of Island Heights, N.J., but
necessary. ''People don't like giving money to unfocused programs,'' he said.
''If you don't set a goal, you just wallow around.''

   Janquitto and other members of the Cincinnati-based group were in Pittsburgh
yesterday as part of a 37-city, 41-day Convoy of Hope tour to increase awareness
of the disease, which affects about 100,000 boys in the United States. They met
with Mayor Murphy and gave him a ride in the convoy's lead vehicle, an
amphibious landing vehicle known as a Duck.

   Eric Hoffman, one of the discoverers of the errant gene responsible for
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, the most fatal form of the disease, has received
about $ 140,000 from the nonprofit group for his laboratory at Pitt. The Parent
Project has proposed funneling $ 2 million to Pitt in hopes of speeding work
that might result in an experimental treatment, he said.

   Janquitto said the group had commitments of several million dollars from
various private and corporate donors.

   Hoffman, assistant professor of molecular genetics and biochemistry, said
Pitt had been relatively successful in getting National Institutes of Health
funding for muscular dystrophy research. At least six Pitt scientists are
studying various aspects of the disease. But that money is mainly for basic
research, he emphasized. ''It's really tough to get money from the NIH for
clinical research,'' he said.

   One reason is that the most promising treatment -- replacing the defective
genes with good genes -- is by no means assured of success, Hoffman said.
Researchers are trying to use gene therapy to treat a number of genetic
diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, but thus far have had difficulty getting
working copies of the desired gene into cells.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995


                             177 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                     August 21, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F03; WASHBIZ

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: FAREWELL TO A PIONEER

BYLINE: Yvonne Chiu; Kathleen Day

BODY:


   Local biotechnology executives are quietly mourning the death of Wallace
Steinberg, a New Jersey-based venture capitalist who planted much of the seed
money for Maryland's biotechnology industry.

   Steinberg, who died in his sleep July 31 at the age of 61, was one of six
partners in HealthCare Investment Corp., which provided the money -- and often
the initial idea -- for several of this area's most prominent biotech firms in
the last decade: Genetic Therapy Inc., MedImmune Inc., Pharmavene Inc, Oncologix
Inc., all of Gaithersburg, and Human Genome Sciences Inc. of Rockville and its
not-for-profit Gaithersburg affiliate, the Institute for Genomic Research.

   "He was the engine that started it all," James Barrett, chief executive of
Genetic Therapy, which was founded in 1987 and was bought by Swiss
pharmaceutical giant Sandoz AG for $ 295 million last month.

   Steinberg, who had a bachelor's degree in pharmacy and a master's degree in
pharmaceutical chemistry from Rutgers University, spent 21 years at Johnson &
Johnson, including stints as a director of research and development and head of
the company's venture capital and strategic planning division.

   After leaving J&J 10 years ago, he founded HealthCare Investment in Metro
Park, N.J., and served as chairman. Every two years, he held a retreat for
presidents of all the companies his group helped found. Earlier this year the
retreat was held on a resort island in Florida. Those who attended listened to
sci entists and other experts. It was a "heavy duty scientific immersion for
four days," in the words of one attendee.

   Executives said that HealthCare Investment has very capable people and that
they expect it will continue, though they said Steinberg's skills will be hard
to replace.

   "Wally Steinberg is the kind of person you can't replace," said James H.
Canvanaugh, president and partner in HealthCare Investment.

   William A. Haseltine, chairman and chief executive of Human Genome Sciences,
said Steinberg always insisted the companies he helped start have a strong --
and independent -- management team.

   "He would always say, 'I'll give you advice but the decision is yours.' And
that was the truth," Haseltine said. "It's very sad. He was a remarkable man of
forceful intellect, farsighted vision and the highest integrity. He will be
sorely missed."


GRAPHIC: Photo

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1995


                             178 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                      August 19, 1995 Saturday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2114 words

HEADLINE: BANKING FETAL BLOOD CELLS: EXPLOITING OR REASSURING PARENTS?

BYLINE: FRANK SPENCER-MOLLOY; Courant Medical Writer
Courant Staff Writer Mary K. Feeney contributed to this story.

BODY:

   When new parents plan for their children's futures, they usually think of
college nest eggs and life insurance.

   But three companies -- hot on the trail of recent medical discoveries -- are
trying to convince parents of the need to provide for their children's
"biological" insurance.

   For a price, they will collect and freeze blood cells drawn from the
umbilical cord and placenta at birth. One Connecticut company, Biocyte Corp. of
Stamford, says it has already packed away in liquid nitrogen the cord blood from
200 to 300 babies.

   Many scientists say cord-cell transplants promise to become an alternative to
bone marrow transplants. Like bone marrow, fetal blood is rich in self-renewing
cells, called stem cells, capable of spawning a complete array of blood and
lymph cells.

   Studies since 1989 have shown an ever-growing list of young patients for whom
cord-cell transplants from siblings have halted, and at times cured, immune
system and blood disorders, including such cancers as leukemia.

   "It is a very effective means of transplantation, taking products from the
birth of an infant that are ordinarily discarded," said Eileen Gillan, a
pediatric cancer specialist at the University of Connecticut Health Center in
Farmington.

   And, scientists say, the cells being transplanted may be not only equal to,
but better than, bone marrow.

   Because they come from the immature immune system of a newborn, cord cells
seem more flexible, grafting successfully where marrow cells of identical tissue
type prove incompatible, Gillan said.  That could mean less of a problem getting
a transplant to take when the donor and recipient are mismatched.

   The first successful cord-cell transplant in Connecticut -- the 26th
worldwide -- occurred in 1993, when UConn doctors transplanted blood from
newborn Jamie Botteon into her 3-year-old brother, Wade. An earlier bone marrow
transplant from an unrelated donor had failed to stop the Bristol boy's
leukemia. Wade is still doing fine, Gillan reported.

   All these tranplants, however, involved cell grafts from donors other than
the patient. No one is known to have received a transplant of his own cord
cells, fresh or frozen, said Paul R. McCurdy, a physician who heads the blood
resources program of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, one of the
National Institutes of Health.

   These early experimental successes, scientists warn, should not be confused
with wholesale public appeals to parents to bank their children's blood for a
future, unforeseen use.

   "There is a lot of promising talk," McCurdy said, "but I would be concerned
that we not go overboard too soon."

   Ethicists, citing the very small chance that a child will ever need a
transplant, brand the selling of "biological" insurance as exploitative.

   But Biocyte President Michael J.  O'Brien said banking a child's own blood
means that a sick child's parents would never have to mount a frantic search for
a compatible donor. The major complication that results from stranger donors --
a reaction in which the transplanted cells reject the body into which they have
been transfused -- is obviated.

   Biocyte was founded 10 years ago, O'Brien said, after scientists at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City realized the potential of a
laboratory finding.  Irradiated mice recovered fully when their destroyed bone
marrow was replaced with their own blood, harvested from their umbilical cords.

   Biocyte spent the first eight or so years gearing up its operations as
scientific support for cord transplants began trickling in. It now markets its
CellBankto obstetricians, encouraging them to pass along the information to
their pregnant patients. It also buys mailing lists to reach expectant parents
directly in selected markets.

   For this service, parents pay a collection and testing fee of $1,500 and a
guaranteed annual storage fee of $75 until the child reaches 18.  Biocyte's
freezer is at the University of Pittsburgh. Once a child is an adult, the
contract can be renegotiated, O'Brien said.

   Another start-up venture is the Boston-based ViaCord Inc., founded two years
ago on a $1 million investment by 34-year-old entrepreneur Cynthia A. Fisher.

   ViaCord, which began marketing earlier this month, has the same upfront fee
of $1,500 and charges $95 a year to store stem cells at its facility at the
University of Cincinnati.

   The third is Long Island-based Cryo-Cell International, which has developed a
freezer capable of storing 35,000 samples, a volume that company Chairman Daniel
Richard said will lower costs and make the program affordable to middle-class
families at $50 a year.

   O'Brien said the response from doctors "generally has been good." But he
acknowledged many are not yet aware that the emerging technology offers parents
a way to hold onto valuable biological tissue that would otherwise be discarded.

   "As with any new technology, there's a period where you need to educate," he
said.

   How it works

   Here's how the technique works:

   When standard chemotherapy and radiation fail to halt the progression of a
blood cancer, doctors may resort to a bone marrow transplant.

   A precarious and often last-ditch procedure, the bone marrow transplant calls
first for irradiating the patient and giving chemotherapy at doses lethal enough
to kill the original bone marrow -- and with it the defect or malignancy causing
the illness.

   The new marrow is transfused and, if all works well, takes root.  The
transplanted stem cells spawn new blood and lymph cells, hopefully free of
disease.

   Bone marrow is generally not banked. If a transplant is planned, doctors look
first to a patient's siblings, because of the greater likelihood a sibling will
have most if not all of the six matching gene groups needed to ensure the
transplant takes.

   If no relative is compatible, doctors search for a tissue match on the
National Bone Marrow Registry. In the registry's computers are the names and
tissue types of people who have volunteered to donate their marrow should the
call arise.

   Because of a donor shortage, the median time it takes to find a match is 126
days. Once a match is found, the donor enters the hospital for a one-day stay.
While the donor is anesthetized, doctors insert a wide- bore needle into the
pelvis at several sites and draw off the milky-red mixture of marrow and blood
found in the hollows of the bone.

   The marrow is then sent by courier to the recipient's bedside.

   For its CellBank, Biocyte has either the obstetrician or a technician draw
off 80 to 100 milliliters -- about 3 ounces -- of blood from a newborn's
discarded umbilical cord and attached placenta.

   UConn's Gillan said researchers unconnected to Biocyte have been able to
harvest up to 200 milliliters.  But the top amounts, in any case, are too small
to have been tried successfully in adults, a drawback to wider use of cord
transplants in anyone other than children at least for the moment.

   In Pittsburgh, O'Brien said, the blood is screened for viability, sterility
and infectious disease and mixed with a preservative to prevent the formation of
ice crystals. It is then refrigerated through a series of step-down temperatures
until being stored in a liquid nitrogen freezer at 196 degrees below zero
Celsius.

   There it sits for years, awaiting a need to return it from whence it came.

   No stored specimen has been used yet. But should a child years later develop
acute myelocytic leukemia or a neuroblastoma or an inborn immune deficiency or
any of several anemias, including sickle- cell anemia, the hope is that the
child could receive his own blood.  O'Brien even mentions the possibility of
gene therapies, as yet undiscovered, that might rely on stored stem cells.

   Cryo-Cell, the latest of the three to plunge into the market, has a prototype
large-volume freezer at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Boston, but none in
commercial use yet, Richard said.

   Rather than one centralized site, Cryo-Cell is trying to place 50 freezers at
hospitals around the country, 15 by the end of next year, he said.

   UConn'sEileen Gillan hopes one of the 15 will be at the new Children's
Medical Center, the successor to Newington Children's Hospital, in Hartford.

   Gillan said she was drawn to Cryo-Cell's promise to set aside for free 5,000
of the 35,000 spaces in each freezer for donations for a public bank.

   She would like to begin routine collection of cord blood after births at all
Hartford-area hospitals. If parents had not already planned to bank their
child's blood, they could be asked to donate the umbilical blood, which would be
typed and held physically, much as donor types are encoded into the bone- marrow
registry. A national computer network would match need with supply around the
country.

   Gillan said the banking of unrelated cord blood would help reverse one of the
biggest problems with the bone marrow registry: a dire shortage of minority
donors.

   Technical difficulties

   Before you decide to pay to bank a child's stem cells, consider what some
scientists say are the unknowns.

   The NIH's Paul McCurdy said most people assume that getting your own stem
cells is safer than getting a stranger's, which won't be identical genetically.

   But they could be wrong, he said.

   The very cause of a child's leukemia may be encrypted and dormant within the
original stem cells. A transplant "could be setting up a recurrence of the
tumor."

   Another potential problem is introduced by the technique, adopted by
Cryo-Cell and endorsed by others, of winnowing plasma and other blood products
from cord blood so that what remains is a small, space- saving,
superconcentrated mixture of stem cells.

   Scientists still have no way to count stem cells, McCurdy said. Although
doctors currently perform successful transplants based on what works
empirically, scientists do not know yet what quantity and ratio of blood
components are needed for a successful transplant.

   The federal government is preparing to award $20 million in grants and
contracts in an effort to understand in detail what goes on when the body makes
blood and immune cells.

   Also, the companies freezing stem cells are operating on their own, without
direction from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA is preparing
rules, "but the state of the art is so early" that the government has not been
able to set down regulations, McCurdy said.

   Another unknown about cord cells is how good they will be at producing in
cancer patients what doctors call the beneficial "graft-versus-leukemia" effect.

   In bone marrow transplants, foreign stem cells from a matched donor still
provoke a mild reaction in which the transplanted cells attack the host,
especially any traces of malignancy left from radiation. That effect may be
lacking from cord cell transplants, paradoxically because the baby's cells are
immunologically immature and present less of a threat of failure.

   'Ultimate exploitation'

   These scientific unknowns, plus the statistical improbability a child will
ever need his stored cells, raises questions among medical ethicists.

   Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of
Pennsylvania, said the banks play on fears.

   It is "dangerously coercive" to advise new parents to bank their babies'
cells. New parents are vulnerable to the thought of any dangers involving their
infants and might not be able to determine accurately whether cell-banking is
necessary.

   The source of most information on cell-banking are companies providing the
service, Caplan said.

   And unless the child is a member of a family with a predisposition to various
genetic disorders, the procedure may not be warranted. Leukemias tend to strike
out of the blue, in people with no family history.

   Calling it the "ultimate exploitation" of anxious, expectant parents, Michael
Grodin, director of the medical ethics program at the Center for Law, Medicine
and Ethics at Boston University School of Medicine, said he has asked the
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Academy of
Pediatrics to urge their physician members not to allow cell banks to distribute
brochures in their offices.

   Grodin said he objects to self- banking not only because "the number of
children who will need this is minuscule," but also because it is being
advertised as "generic prophylaxis" against unforeseen diseases for which no
treatments, such as gene therapy, even exist yet.

   O'Brien said that is exactly the idea. The bank provides a low-cost edge on
an unknown, but promising, future in which medical science seems poised to make
extensive use of stem cells to manipulate genes to eradicate disease.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1995


                             179 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                      August 19, 1995 Saturday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: DECISION TO SAVE INFANT'S CELLS GIVING PARENTS PEACE OF MIND

BYLINE: FRANK SPENCER-MOLLOY; Courant Medical Writer

BODY:

   When Ardennes Vickery was born at Yale-New Haven Hospital 12 days ago,
everything was in place to save and store her blood in case it might one day be
needed to save her from an unlikely disease.

   Sha and Bryan Vickery of Madison had never heard of the technique of banking
umbilical cord blood until a brochure from Biocyte Corp. of Stamford arrived in
the mail.

   "They barely caught me in time before I gave birth," said Sha Vickery, who is
working on her master's degree in nursing.  "It sounded very interesting and I
ended up liking the idea."

   Her obstetrician was encouraging, too, she said, so the Vickerys signed a
contract with Biocyte that pledges the company to hold little Ardennes' blood,
rich in replenishing stem cells, at least until she is 18.

   The company provided the equipment, and her doctor drew the sample after
Ardennes was born.

   A courier sent by Biocyte took it away.

   There is a family history of multiple sclerosis, one of the many inherited
disorders that the company tells prospective clients might be curable one day
with as-yet-undevised gene therapies.

   "But I would have done it in any case," Vickery said. "We would never have
had another opportunity to do this, and we could never have forgiven ourselves
if something happened."

   She disagrees with critics who accuse Biocyte and its rivals of exploiting
expectant parents' heightened anxieties.

   "We're more appreciative than if we had not been approached at all and not
been made aware of the fact that it existed," she said.

   Vickery did speak to her doctor beforehand and "knew the probability ratios"
indicating whether her daughter would ever need her stored stem cells.

   But even considering the $1,500 collection fee, she figured the $75 annual
fee for her and her husband, an antiques dealer, is "negligible," less than a
term- life insurance policy and less than the "extremely costly search" some
families with a sick child go through to find a suitable marrow donor.

   "We thought it was a great idea."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1995


                             180 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1995 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)



                           August 17, 1995, Thursday

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL & NATIONAL, Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: HEALY LAUNCHES MED CLASS OF '99 TOWARD REFORM

BYLINE: Alan D. Miller, Dispatch Higher Education Reporter

BODY:


   The health-care system of the next century began incubation yesterday in an
overheated conference room at Ohio State University.

   It will grow from the minds of the 210 first-year medical students who start
classes next week, and hundreds of others like them across the country, said Dr.
Bernadine Healy, dean-in-waiting of OSU's College of Medicine.

   As she welcomed the class of 1999, the Cleveland doctor who was an adviser to
President George Bush and last year ran for the U.S. Senate, urged the future
doctors to take hold of the nation's fixation on health-care reform and use it
for improvement.

   Healy, who previously headed the National Institutes of Health, said doctors
have been removed from the political process for at least 30 years too long.

   They have cloistered themselves in their practices while others defined how
medicine would be practiced and paid for, she said.

   ''What happened in the national debate last year is that it put the fear of
God into a lot of doctors. And now the question is: Do we sit here paralyzed and
in a defensive mode, or do we affirm it and say this is an opportunity?

   ''These students will be the generation to make the change. They are the
ones. This is the class of 1999 - the last class of this century, and the one to
usher in the next.

   ''They do not lament the past. They look to the future and know that it is
theirs,'' said Healy, who officially becomes dean Sept. 25, after concluding
duties as senior policy adviser for the Cleveland Clinic.

   Healy urged the new students to be politically active:

   ''We, individually and collectively, must become involved in shaping this
future for ourselves, for our craft and mostly for our patients - or someone
else will do it for us.''

   Healy said that rapid changes brought by scientific research are changing the
practice of medicine. Breakthroughs in genetic research have discovered the
genes for cystic fibrosis and certain forms of muscular dystrophy. And two of
the major genes for breast cancer, which also could play a role in cancers of
the ovary and prostate, also have been found.

   In the future, when such genes are identified in individuals, it could allow
doctors to treat people before they are afflicted by the diseases.

   ''This is not just gee-whiz,'' Healy said. ''Gene therapy is just starting
and has great promise. It is very likely we will be able to cure cystic
fibrosis, or colon cancer, or sickle cell anemia with this new knowledge.''

   But she cautioned the students that technology can never replace a personal
touch.

   ''Keep in mind the work of the most human and eminent of healers - Groucho
Marx - and don't become too dependent on the high-tech science of medicine. In A
Day at the Races, Dr. Groucho seizes a man's wrist and declares, 'Either he's
dead, or my watch has stopped.'

   ''In other words, place half of your faith in science and the rest in
yourself as a person and a physician - your common sense, your judgment and also
your integrity and compassion,'' Healy said.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1995


                             181 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                    August 16, 1995, Wednesday, City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Biotech stocks grow with small promises of progress;
EMERGING BUSINESS / FAST TRACK

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg and Globe Wire Services

BODY:

    Biotechnology stocks are again in bloom, catching some of this summer's high
tech pollen from investors now looking to petri-dish promises and beyond.

   Surprisingly, the gains are coming without the usual measurement of success:
a Food and Drug Administration approval of a new drug. Locally, there has not
been a major new drug in more than year.

   Instead the current boom is due to some promising announcements, most notably
the licensing from Rockefeller University by Amgen Corp. of Thousand Oaks,
Calif., of a "fat" gene that reportedly causes obesity. Another is very
promising Phase II clinical data results on a drug to treat Lou Gehrig's Disease
from Cephalon Inc. of West Chester, Pa.

   Finally, Genzyme Corp. of Cambridge has said it has very good clinical data
on its drug coating to prevent adhesions in surgical procedures. Genzyme's
shares have doubled since last fall to more than $ 60 a share.

   "The combination Amgen, Cephalon and Genzyme of small measures of success in
the biotech industry plus a little bit of speculation by investors in the market
has fueled the growth in biotech stocks," said Michael Ehrenreich, president of
a Ehrenreich & Co., the New York investment firm that tracks biotechnology
issues.

   "Wall Street is a barometer of current events rather than long-term value.
There are specific pieces of good news and people - investors - are looking for
a new sector and biotechnology seems to be a laggard," he added.

   The current growth comes after a 2 1/2 year period during which many cash
starved biotech companies found it difficult to raise money on Wall Street.
Investors considered drug development too risky and remained wary of biotechs
during President Clinton's call for health care reform last year.

   Now the mood is more upbeat, in part as big companies like Genzyme, Amgen and
Chiron Corp., of Emeryville, Calif., show improved earnings. Industry maturity
has also led to investor discernment over which companies are making real
progresss toward getting drugs to market and those that are experiencing
difficulties.

A venture into gene therapy

    Biogen Inc., of Cambridge, said it signed an agreement to form a venture
with Genovo Inc. to develop gene therapy products.

   As part of the agreement, Biogen will invest more than $ 35 million in Genovo
during the next five years. In return, Biogen will receive a minority interest
in Genovo and certain licensing rights for any products developed by the
venture.

   Gene therapy involves the transfer of genes into human cells for therapeutic
benefit. Genovo is developing a technique which will alter the cells within the
body.

   The venture will initially concentrate on developing gene therapy products to
treat diseases of the liver and the lung, including cystic fibrosis.

   Philadelphia-based Genovo was formed by gene therapy experts Dr. James Wilson
and Mariann Grossman.  Biogen developed the virus and cancer treatment, Intron
A, which is sold under license by Schering-Plough Corp.

Omni stock begins trading

    Omni MultiMedia Group Inc.'s common stock has begun trading on the American
Stock Exchange.

   The initial stock offering is $ 5 million, Paul Johnson, president and chief
executive of the Millbury company, said yesterday.

   Omni MultiMedia produces and distributes catalogs for the multimedia industry
through two wholly owned subsidiaries: Omni Resources Corp. and 4 CD's Corp.

   "It's been two years of trying to make this deal happen and now Omni is ready
to move to the next level," Johnson said of the public offering.

   The company employs more than 120 people and services firms such as Prodigy
Services Co., John Hancock Insurance, Powersoft Corp., Microcom Inc. and Bay
Networks.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1995


                             182 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                    August 16, 1995 Wednesday SECOND EDITION

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 042

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Business Briefcase

BODY:


   AUGAT CONTRACT: Mansfield-based Augat Inc. yesterday announced a contract to
upgrade the Austin, Texas, unit of Time Warner Cable. The deal calls for Augat
to supply at least 20,000 amplifiers to Austin Cablevision. The system upgrade
will span more than 3,600 miles of cable over the next five years. Officials
declined to detail financial terms of the deal.

   NAME GAME: MCI Communications Inc and News Corp said yesterday they were
inviting residents of cyberspace to name the new online service they will
jointly operate. The winner gets a $ 5,000 cash prize. The to-be-named service
is part of a joint venture announced last week by MCI and News Corp to launch
new, Internet-based online services for consumers and businesses. Complete
contest rules are available online, via e-mail at newname+internetMCI.com and
newname+delphi.com or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to "Name the
Net Contest," P.O. Box 4503, Blair, Neb. 68009.

   LAWYER INDICTED: A former Plymouth attorney was indicted yesterday on charges
of converting hundreds of thousands of dollars in three clients' funds for his
own use, U.S. Attorney Donald K. Stern said. Stephen W. Murphy, formerly of
Plymouth, was charged with bank fraud and mail fraud. Prosecutors said he
schemed to defraud People's Heritage Bank in Burlington and the Cape Cod Five
Cent Savings Bank in Orleans. Murphy, who had his law offices in Weymouth and
currently lives in Nantucket, embezzled more than $ 140,000 from People's
Heritage while representing the bank in a real estate closing, Stern said.

   PLC SALE: PLC Systems yesterday announced a $ 5 million deal to sell five
lasers to Imatron Inc. of Japan. PLC, which is based in Milford, makes lasers
for use in heart surgery. Officials said the agreement calls for Imatron to buy
at least 70 heart lasers and other equipment from PLC in coming years.

   BIOGEN: Biogen Inc. yesterday announced a $ 35 million deal to invest in a
tiny Philadelphia start-up that specializes in gene therapy. Cambridge-based
Biogen is buying an undisclosed interest in Genovo Inc., and will get exclusive
licensing rights to a series of potential products, including treatments for
diseases of the liver and lung. The news marks the first time Biogen has made
such an investment in another firm, a sign of Biogen's growth.

   DOLLAR SURGES: The dollar soared to its highest levels in almost six months
after the central banks of the U.S., Germany, Japan, and Switzerland bought
dollars to drive the currency higher. The dollar surged 3.5 percent against the
yen and 2.9 percent against the deutsche mark. In the past month alone, the
dollar has gained 10.3 percent against the yen and 6.2 percent against the mark.
The dollar rose as high 1.4792 marks, its highest since Feb. 22. It was last at
1.4780 marks, up from 1.4366 marks Monday. The U.S. currency rose as high as
97.02 yen, its highest since Feb. 28. It was last at 96.94 yen, up from 93.63
yen late Monday.

   ECONOMY: Sweltering temperatures kept utility companies busy and bolstered
national industrial output in July, the Federal Reserve said yesterday,
offsetting widespread weakness among manufacturing businesses. Total production
by the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose a slight 0.1 percent after a
revised 0.1 percent drop in June. But capacity use rates edged lower for a sixth
month in a row so that industry ran at 83.4 percent of their maximum, the lowest
in more than a year.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995


                             183 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1995 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                 August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Southland Edition

SECTION: Business; Part D; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: BUYING SPREE BOOSTS DOLLAR TO 6-MONTH HIGH;
CURRENCY: BUT BLUE CHIPS SAG AS U.S., GERMANY AND JAPAN JOIN FORCES TO END
GREENBACK'S DOWNWARD TREND AGAINST YEN.

BYLINE: From Times Wire Services

BODY:

   The dollar jumped to its highest levels in nearly six months Tuesday as the
United States, Germany and Japan joined forces in a surprise buying spree on
world currency markets.

   Dealers said they expect further advances as the dollar now looks to have
decisively broken a five-year downward trend against the Japanese yen.

   "Buy dollars and wear diamonds," joked Scott Pardee, senior adviser at
Japanese broker Yamaichi International in New York and a longtime backer of U.S.
currency.

   In New York, the dollar was at 96.94 yen, its highest level since Feb. 28 and
up more than 3% from its 93.65 exchange rate Monday. After New York trading
ended, the dollar added to its gains in Tokyo, rising above 99 yen before
slipping back to 98.68 yen early today.

   The stronger dollar means that Americans won't have to pay as much for
imported products. It also will make it cheaper for Americans to travel
overseas.

   But it will put a dent in the earnings of U.S. companies, which will find it
harder to turn a profit on their exports. Wall Street stock prices sagged
Wednesday, partly in response, although a late-session reversal in the bond
market pulled stocks off the day's lows.

   Analysts are now looking for the dollar to rise to 100 yen.

   "The trend has turned," said David Coleman, chief economist at broker CIBC
Wood Gundy in London. "Dollar-yen is going back up to 100."

   The Dow Jones industrial average closed 19.02 points lower at 4,640.84, up
from the day's low of 4,614. The blue-chip index rallied over 41 points Monday.

   In the broader market, losers led gainers 1,180 to 1,035 on moderately heavy
volume of 330 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.

   The Nasdaq composite index slipped from its record closing high set Monday,
dropping 0.07 point to 1,012.37.

   The dollar concern was especially reflected in the Dow index, which is made
up of large multinationals. Coca-Cola Co. fell 7/8 to 65 1/2, McDonald's Corp.
dropped 1 1/8 to 37 3/4 and Merck & Co. gave back 7/8 to 50.

   Leon Brand, global market strategist at NatWest Securities, said he did not
expect the dollar's rally to last long. Once the dollar stabilizes there could
be renewed buying in shares of exporters, coupled with a resurgent interest in
smaller, domestic-market oriented companies, he said.

   "That should give us again a new high in the stock market," he said.

   Traders said sharper losses in stocks were averted after the bond market
reversed ground late in the day.

   The price of the Treasury's main 30-year bond, down 1/4 point in earlier
trading, ended up 3/4 point, or $7.50 per $1,000 in face value. Its yield, which
moves inversely from price, fell to 6.89% from 6.95% late Monday.  Among
Tuesday's highlights:

   * Broadway Stores Inc. jumped 4 1/4 to 7 1/8 after Federated Department
Stores Inc. said late Monday that it planned to buy the retailer in a deal
valued at $1.6 billion. Federated fell 1 1/2 to 28.

   * The initial public offering of AVX Corp. rose 5 3/8 from its starting price
at 25 1/2. AVX is unit of Kyocera Corp. and makes passive electronics
components.

   * Home Depot Inc. said its second quarter gross profit margins fell and
weather-related delays were slowing 1995 store expansion. It fell 3/4 to 42 1/2.

   * MedPartners Inc. rose 4 1/4 to 25 5/8 after saying it was in a $360-million
merger deal with Mullikin Medical Enterprises LP, a private multi-specialty
physician group.

   * Somatix Therapy Corp. rose 1 to 7 3/8 after Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said
it will invest $20-million dollars in the company for certain cancer gene
therapy rights.

   Among other indicators, the Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks
fell 1.17 points to 558.57. The American Stock Exchange index rose 0.58 of a
point to 524.52 and the NYSE Composite index of all listed common stocks fell
0.52 to 299.23. The average price per share fell 6 cents.

   In foreign trading, Tokyo stocks soared on domestic investors' buying in many
incentive-backed issues and foreigners' purchases of high-tech shares. The
Nikkei average ended 536.15 points, or 3.17%, higher at 17,452.72, its highest
close since 17,472.94 on Feb. 24.

   German shares ended higher supported by firm Bund and DAX futures, the
dollar's strength and Wall Street's strong finish Monday. The DAX index ended up
19.16 points at 2,227.61.

   In Mexico City, the Bolsa recouped early losses and managed to end up 0.82 at
2,522.64. It hit a session low of 2,509.69 before bouncing back.

   In London, stocks ended mixed to slightly higher as the summer holiday season
kept many investors away. The FTSE-100 index finished 3.0 points higher at
3,444.4.

   On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold rose $1.20 to $385.30, ending off its
highs after an early rally was capped by producer selling, traders said.

   Silver ended slightly lower, after a rally to two-month highs stalled and
speculative selling helped drive prices back down, traders said. September
silver settled 0.7 cent lower at $5.345 an ounce.

   Nymex gasoline closed lower as traders expected a rise in imports in the
aftermath of Hurricane Erin. Late Tuesday, the American Petroleum Institute
report confirmed a rise in gasoline, with supplies up 281,000 barrels during the
week ended Aug. 11 -- more than some analysts expected.

   September gasoline closed down 0.41 cent at 54.82 cents a gallon. September
heating oil was off 0.03 cent at 48.74 cents a gallon, and September crude oil
lost 1 cent to end at $17.47 a barrel.

   Markets Roundup, D8

GRAPHIC: Chart, DAILY DIARY: August 15, 1995; Dow Jones Industrials; New York
Volume; Interest Rates / Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1995


                             184 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

BODY:


   Joint Intervention Sends Dollar Soaring
The United States, Germany and Japan sent the dollar soaring to its highest
levels in nearly six months, buying more than a billion dollars in world
currency markets.

   The Bank of Japan bought dollars for yen in Tokyo, the Bundesbank purchased
dollars with marks in Frankfurt and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York spent
yen and marks to buy dollars. When it was all over, the dollar had risen 2.9
percent against the mark and 3.5 percent against the yen. [Page A1.]

Texas A & M Admits Paying Workers Illegally
The Texas A & M University system admitted that it had illegally paid 400 farm
laborers as independent contractors rather than as employees, cheating the
Government of about $86,000 in payroll taxes and depriving the workers of
unemployment, disability and Social Security benefits. [A1.]

Universal Studios Expansion
The Rank Organization of Britain agreed with MCA to spend more than $2 billion
to quadruple the size of the companies' Universal Studios Florida theme park in
Orlando. [D6.]

Gene Therapy Investments
Bristol-Myers Squibb said it would invest up to $20 million in Somatix Therapy,
a gene-therapy company. Biogen also said it would invest about $35 million in
Genovo Inc., another gene-therapy concern. [D7.]

Interscope Sues Rap Critic
Interscope Records has sued C. DeLores Tucker, a strong critic of Time Warner's
involvement in gangsta rap, accusing her of trying to persuade its leading rap
producer to leave the record label. [D5.]

Retailers Report Earnings
J. C. Penney and Dayton Hudson reported lower earnings for the fiscal second
quarter, as discount and general-merchandise retailers lured customers away from
big department store chains. But Wal-Mart said its earnings rose 12 percent, and
Woolworth reported that its losses narrowed. [D2.]

Industrial Reports Mixed
Total production by the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose a slight
one-tenth of 1 percent in July, the first rise in five months. Analysts said
American industry was slowly pulling out of a slump caused by big stockpiles of
unsold goods. But capacity utilization edged lower for the sixth month in a row,
with industries running at 83.4 percent of their maximum. [D2.]

World Bank Halts Nepal Credit
The World Bank's new president, signaling a more cautious approach to lending,
has withdrawn $175 million in credits promised for a hydroelectric project in
Nepal, causing cancellation of the $1 billion project. [D7.]

Maytag Settles Plant Suit
Maytag has agreed to pay $16.5 million to settle a class-action lawsuit brought
by former employees in West Virginia, who said the company lied to them when it
closed their vending-machine plant. [A20.]

Suffolk Executive Backs Lilco Bid
In an effort to cut electricity rates and avoid a tax refund that could exceed
$100 million, the Suffolk County Executive said he supported a county
partnership in a $9 billion plan for a public takeover of the Long Island
Lighting Company. [B7.]

New York Agency Goes West
A creatively focused mid-sized advertising agency, Deutsch Inc., is about to
open its first office outside New York. The office, in Santa Monica, Calif., is
to begin operations sometime next week. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials                4,640.84         -19.02
30-yr. Treasury yield             6.89%          -0.06
The dollar                    96.99 yen          +3.33

Chart: "TODAY"

Housing Starts

    July figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.

    Expected: +3.2%

Hewlet-Packard

    Third-quarter earnings due during the day.

    Expected: $1.01 a share.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995


                             185 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                August 16, 1995, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;  Page 7;  Column 5;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Bristol-Myers and Biogen To Invest in Gene Therapy

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

BODY:

   Both Bristol-Myers Squibb Inc. and Biogen Inc. announced planned investments
yesterday in gene-therapy companies.

   Bristol-Myers said it would invest up to $20 million in Somatix Therapy Inc.,
a gene-therapy company in Alameda, Calif., and Biogen planned to invest as much
as $35 million over the next five years in Genovo Inc., a newly formed company
based in Philadelphia. Somatix shares rose $1 to close at $7.375 in Nasdaq
trading; Genovo is privately held.

    The deals underscore the importance of gene therapy to pharmaceutical and
biotech companies alike, following closely on Sandoz Ltd.'s $295 million
acquisition of Genetic Therapy Inc. in July, and the Chiron Corporation's $95
million acquisition of Viagene in April. Other big drug companies with major
investments in gene therapy include Bayer, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Baxter
International and Merck.

   By treating disease with the body's own genetic material, gene therapy holds
the potential to correct genetic defects and, in theory at least, treat almost
every known disease. The therapy, barely five years old, involves the injection
of DNA into human cells, with the goal of replacing damaged genes or producing
proteins that stimulate the immune system.

   The larger companies' push into gene therapy "is all about targets for drug
development," said Cynthia Robbins-Roth, editor of Bioventure View, an industry
newsletter. "It's a great way to leverage your drug discovery effort: you get to
use the gene itself as a drug, for gene therapy; the protein that's expressed by
that gene as therapy, and, eventually, if you're lucky, you can develop small
molecules that act on that protein as drugs," she said. "You get three for the
price of one."

   In return for providing the seed money for Genovo, a company founded by James
Wilson and Mariann Grossman, two leading gene- therapy specialists at the
University of Pennsylvania, Biogen will receive a significant minority equity
position, as well as certain licensing rights. The initial research targets will
be diseases of the liver and lungs, cystic fibrosis and familial
hypercholesterol.

   "We believe very strongly that this is going to be one of the most exciting
new frontiers in drug development," James Vincent, Biogen's chairman and chief
executive, said in a telephone interview. "The impact of gene therapy on the
pharmaceutical industry has the potential to equal, and quite possibly to
surpass, the advances in diagnosis and treatment that the biotechnology
revolution has brought about in its first 25 years," he said.

   In return for certain rights to gene-therapy treatments for cancer,
Bristol-Myers has bought $10 million of Somatix stock at a premium to its market
value. After Jan. 1, and subject to approval for Somatix to begin the second of
three human trials of its cancer vaccine, Bristol-Myers will purchase an
additional $10 million in Somatix stock at a premium.

   "This is a very good deal for Somatix," said Paul Boni, an analyst with Mehta
& Isaly. "What they're getting from Bristol-Myers is commitment, but they're not
giving up much at this point," because Somatix is only granting Bristol the
right of first refusal in future negotiations. "It shows the value of getting a
foothold in gene therapy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995


                             186 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   AUGUST 16, 1995, WEDNESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2; BUSINESS DIGEST

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapies Deal

BODY:

    Somatix Therapy Corp., an Alameda-based biotechnology company working on new
gene therapies for cancer and neurological disorders, announced a $ 20 million
development deal with pharmaceutical giant Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Somatix
said the investment and a prior financing gives it two years' operating cash.
Somatix's stock price rose 1 to close at 7 3/8.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995


                             187 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 16, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: DOLLAR'S GAINS HURT MULTINATIONAL STOCKS

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:


   Blue-chip stocks fell Tuesday as a rally in the dollar to the highest levels
in nearly six months threatened to hurt the foreign earnings of multinational
firms.

   A late-session reversal in the bond market, however, pulled stocks off the
day's lows. "The market's showing a lot of volatility," said Richard Meyer,
manager of institutional trading at Ladenberg, Thalmann & Co.

   Analysts said U.S. multinational firms had been aided in the past year by the
weak dollar, which makes U.S. exports cheaper and boosts the value of foreign
earnings.

   The dollar concern was especially reflected in the Dow index, which is made
up of large multinationals. Coca-Cola Co. fell 7/8 to 65 1/2, McDonald's Corp.
dropped 1 1/8 to 37 3/4 and Merck & Co. Inc. gave back 7/8 to 50.

   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 24/32, or $ 7.50 on a $ 1,000 bond,
reducing its yield to 6.89 percent from Monday's close of 6.95 percent.

   Among individual stocks, Broadway Stores Inc. jumped 4 1/4 to 7 1/8 after
Federated Department Stores Inc. said late Monday it planned to buy the retailer
in a deal valued at $ 1.6 billion. Federated fell 1 1/2 to 28.

   The initial public offering of AVX Corp. rose 5 3/8 from its starting price
at 25 1/2. AVX is unit of Kyocera Corp. and makes passive electronics
components.

   Home Depot Inc. said its second-quarter gross profit margins fell and
weather-related delays were slowing 1995 store expansion. It fell 3/4 to 42 1/2.

   MedPartners Inc. rose 4 1/4 to 25 5/8 after saying it was in a $ 360 million
merger deal with Mullikin Medical Enterprises LP, a private multispecialty
physician group.

   Somatix Therapy Corp. rose 1 to 7 3/8 after Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said it
will invest $ 20 million dollars in the company for certain cancer gene therapy
rights.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; (1 - 3) Graphic/Charts showing the rate of daily change for
DOW JONES, -19.02, NASDAQ, -.07 and S&P 500, -1.18 (4) Graphic/Chart by the
Post-Dispatch - Dow Jones Industrial Average 4640.84

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995


                             188 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    August 10, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg.  D09; DIGEST

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: DIGEST

BODY:


   The White House nominated Ohio law professor Isaac C. Hunt Jr., 57, and Utah
securities specialist Norman Johnson, 64, to fill two open seats on the
five-member SEC.

   Yields on 10-year Treasury notes fell to the lowest level in 1 1/2 years as
the government continued its quarterly refinancing. The average yield was 6.50
percent, down from 6.61 percent at the last auction May 10. The notes will carry
a coupon interest rate of 6.5 percent, with each $ 10,000 in face value selling
for $ 9,999.30. The Treasury sold $ 18 billion in three-year notes Tuesday and
plans to sell $ 11.5 billion of 30-year bonds today.

   General Motors said it will become the first automaker to cover tires under
its new-car and light-truck warranties for the 1996 model year. Tire warranty
costs will still be paid by the tire manufacturers.

   Sears named Arthur Martinez, head of its retailing division, as chairman and
chief executive. The appointment was widely expected because Martinez was
recommended by his predecessor, Edward Brennan, 61, who in November announced
his retirement.

   Financier Robert Brennan, facing payment of a $ 75 million fine for cheating
penny stock investors, has filed for bankruptcy protection to give him time to
appeal the penalty.

   The economy is expanding moderately in the upper Midwest, Southeast and West
but in much of the rest of the nation growth has come to a standstill, the
Federal Reserve reported in its survey of business conditions known as the beige
book.

   Reliance Holdings Group confirmed that Chairman Saul Steinberg, the takeover
strategist, suffered a stroke in June. But the insurer defended its decision to
keep the information from shareholders. Steinberg's stroke, first reported on
CNBC television on Tuesday, was mild and "not material" to the big insurance
company's operations, a Reliance spokesman said. Steinberg, 55, is recuperating
at home.

   Computer Associates International will split its common stock 3 for 2,
effective Sept. 5, and pay an annual 14 cent dividend for each post-split share.
The softwaremaker is expected to close a tender offer later this month in its $
1.74 billion acquisition of software rival Legent of Herndon.

   Ameritech Ohio plans to hire 375 customer service employees to handle
increasing orders and repair requests. The Ohio Office of Consumers' Counsel and
the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio both have pending complaints against
Ameritech because of customer service.

   Clorox said fourth-quarter earnings rose 11 percent to $ 59.5 million on
strong sales of its household products.

   Business Mailers Review, a twice-monthly newsletter that has been an irritant
to postal officials, has been acquired by Pasha Publications of Arlington for an
undisclosed sum.

   BellSouth will soon stop using Southern Bell and South Central Bell as brand
names in its main telecommunications subsidiary, the company said. BellSouth
said the move was needed to create a consistent brand identity as the
telecommunications industry becomes increasingly competitive.

   CompUSA surprised Wall Street by beating analysts' expectations with a
fourth-quarter profit of $ 4.3 million. The Dallas-based computer retailer had a
loss of $ 13.6 million a year ago.

   Internet surfers at the SEC shut down a scheme that offered a "whopping" 20
percent return for investing in a start-up eel farm. The SEC said 19-year-old
Daniel Odulo of San Jose agreed to settle federal securities fraud charges
resulting from a misleading investment offering on the Internet, the global
public data network.

   Nordstrom reported a 14.5 percent drop in earnings for the second quarter,
citing disappointing sales from stores opened more than a year. The upscale
retailer earned $ 53.8 million in the three months ending July 31, compared with
$ 63 million during the same period a year ago.

   Columbia-HCA Healthcare reported it lost $ 18 million in the second quarter
ended June 30, largely as a result of costs from its $ 5.7 billion acquisition
of the HealthTrust hospital chain. In the same period last year, it reported a
profit of $ 243 million.

   Federated Department Stores said it lost about $ 67 million in the second
quarter -- after earning $ 3.7 million in the 1994 quarter -- largely due to
costs associated with the acquisition of the R.H. Macy.

   Archer Daniels Midland, facing a federal probe into alleged price-fixing,
said it has formed an office of public relations. The new department will be
chaired by former general counsel Roy Erickson, who had been serving as a
consultant to the Decatur, Ill.-based company.

   Leaders of Mexico's tequila industry said they were fed up with U.S. and
Canadian firms marketing "phony" margaritas containing hardly a drop of Mexico's
favorite liquor. The industry wants the Treasury Department's Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms to forbid calling a drink a margarita if contains no
tequila.

   LOCAL BUSINESS

   Washington Homes of Landover said its delivery of new homes rose 18 percent
in fiscal 1995 to 1,167 and that new orders rose 10 percent to 1,124. It said,
however, that the backlog of homes under contract fell 7.2 percent to 561 homes.
.

   The Carousel Hotel in Ocean City, Md., has been sold for approximately $ 7
million to a partnership led by Pennsylvania heart surgeon Siamak Hamzavia The
265-room, 190-condominium resort was taken over by the former Bank of Baltimore,
which assumed ownership in June 1994 from Warren Halle, a Silver Spring
developer who bought it in 1986 for $ 18.2 million.

   Genetic Therapy, a Gaithersburg company that is developing human gene-therapy
products, lost $ 4.32 million in the second quarter, compared with a profit of $
3.13 million a year earlier. Revenue dropped 70 percent to $ 2.65 million. In
July, Genetic agreed to be acquired by Sandoz Pharma.

   Richfood Holdings, a Richmond wholesale food distributor, said its profit
climbed 31 percent to $ 6.37 million in the second quarter. Revenue increased 34
percent to $ 395.8 million.


GRAPHIC: Chart, krt graphics, THE WORLD'S OIL GIANTS TOP OIL PRODUCERS AND NET
EXPLORERS, MILLIONS OF BARRELS PER DAY, 1994: PRODUCERS United States 8.6 Saudi
Arabia 8.6 Russia 7.1 Iran 3.6 Mexico 3.1 EXPORTERS Saudi Arabia 7.5 Norway 2.5
Russia 2.4 Iran 2.4 U. A. Emirates 2.4 SOURCE: Norske Shell

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1995


                             189 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 8, 1995, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Human trials begin for new cancer fighter;
Researchers at Pitt testing hormonelike drug Interleukin-12

BYLINE: Bill Schackner, Post-Gazette Staff Writer

BODY:


   After other cancer treatments failed, Leonard Mendelson, 72, gambled on
something called Interleukin-4 a couple years back, hoping it could do for the
melanoma on his right leg what other treatments had not.

   The smile on his face yesterday left no doubt about how his gene therapy
turned out.

   ''Absolutely gone,'' said Mendelson, a lawyer from Pittsburgh, pointing to a
leg that is now cancer-free.

   Mendelson and his wife, Emily, were at Montefiore University Hospital
yesterday as University of Pittsburgh researchers took another early step in the
development of gene therapy by announcing the first human trials in the nation
involving another hormonelike substance, Interleukin-12.

   The first recipient is a housewife from Forward whose breast cancer has
reached the advanced stage despite radiation treatments, chemotherapy and
surgery.

   For a month, the 53-year-old patient, who asked the hospital not to identify
her by name, has received injections of her own skin cells after they were
genetically altered to produce Interleukin-12. The injections were made directly
into her tumor.

   ''She has successfully received four separate weekly applications of the
therapy at the lowest dose,'' said Dr. Michael Lotze, principal investigator of
the study and co-director of the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute's
Biologic Therapeutics Program.

   In the months ahead, the woman will be joined by 17 other patients whose
trials have been approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration, Lotze
said. They are suffering from skin tumors produced by advanced melanoma, or head
and neck cancer.

   Interleukin-12, which was discovered in the 1980s, activates and increases
production of tumor-killing immune cells in the body. Recent tests on laboratory
animals have shown that the substance is useful in treating many forms of cancer
but does not produce toxicity associated with other forms of gene therapy.

   The trials are in their initial phase, and Lotze said yesterday that it was
premature to start talking about a cancer vaccine. But he added that he was
excited about the potential applications for Interleukin-12, which he said was
''as important and exciting a hormone as we've got right now'' in the fight
against cancer.

   ''Our expectation is that this will be one of the major forms of cancer
therapy. Will it be the major form? Given the complexity of cancer, that's
unlikely,'' he said. ''But I think it will be one of the major forms.''

   The 18 patients involved in the trial's first phase will receive increasing
dosages and their progress will be closely monitored by the FDA. ''If it is
proven to be safe, then we will test its effectiveness on another group of 30 to
40 patients,'' Lotze said.

   About a million patients in the United States develop cancer yearly, and one
of three Americans will get some form of cancer. About half of the patients die,
despite therapies now available.

   Therapy involving genes goes to cancer's root cause.

   ''We recognize that cancer is fundamentally a genetic disorder. It's a
disorder of the genes,'' Lotze said. ''In actual fact, much of our gene
therapies are not so much designed to correct those defects in the genes but to
try and bring the defects to the attention of cells within the immune system.''

   That's how researchers hope to use Interleukin-12, which is made by a select
group of immune cells that are normally the first to encounter and respond to
disease- causing organisms. Interleukin-12 activates other immune cells able to
kill cancer.

   It has been shown to effectively eliminate cancer in lab animals that
received modest doses.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1995


                             190 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1995 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                    August 2, 1995, Wednesday, City Edition

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Geffen donates to AIDS lab;
NAMES & FACES Names & Faces can be reached by electronic mail at names(AT SIGN
SYMBOL)globe.com. Material from wire services and other sources was used in this
column.

BYLINE: By Susan Bickelhaupt and Maureen Dezell, Globe Staff

BODY:

    The Los Angeles-based David Geffen Foundation has quietly donated $ 500,000
to the Robert Mapplethorpe Laboratory for AIDS at the Deaconess Hospital. The
gift, which neither the foundation nor the lab has publicized, will support a
10-year fellowship in developing the gene-therapy approach to HIV-disease. The
foundation, which entertainment industry magnate Geffen started seven years ago,
gives primarily to AIDS- and HIV-related causes, civil liberties organizations,
the arts and Jewish community organizations. The Mapplethorpe lab, established
in 1990 with a $ 300,000 bequest from the late photographer, who was treated at
the Deaconess, is considered one of the leading AIDS research laboratories in
the world.

Ch. 5's Daniels leaves for BU hospital

    Longtime WCVB-er Valerie Navy Daniels, most recently a producer-reporter for
Channel 5's weekly program "City Line," has left the station to become director
of community relations at the Boston University Medical Center Hospital.

A hunk of a mag

    The kickoff issue of John F. Kennedy Jr.'s political magazine, George, is
wrapped and ready to slam down on the nation's newsstands next month. And we do
mean slam. Kennedy has been mum about George's editorial content. But his
partner Michael Berman has let on that JFK Jr. will conduct a Q&A for each issue
of the new bimonthly, to be published by Hachette Filipacchi Magazines. (Rumor
has it that the first-issue interview is with George Wallace.) Berman also lets
this week's New York magazine know that George's premiere issue will contain a
hefty 300 pages - some 170 of them ads. It's got former New York Observer editor
Eric Etheridge on its editorial board, well-regarded writers like Mim Udovitch
penning profiles and Herb Ritts shooting photos.

The monument man

    Mayor Menino has appointed longtime public parks advocate Henry Lee,
president of the Friends of the Public Garden and Common, to the Boston Art
Commission. Established in 1892, the five-member commission is responsible for
the siting and movement of all art and monuments located on public property in
the city.

In the Thicke of it

    You didn't really think that Alan Thicke came east with his wife just to
play golf, did you? Of course not. Thicke and Gina Toloson Thicke (the former
Miss World) are celebrating their first anniversary with a mini-vacation on
Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket before Thicke heads to the Cape at the end of
the week for the Cam Neely Golf Classic. The two dined last night at the Oyster
Bar Restaurant on the Vineyard. . . . Parisian chef and restaurateur Jean-Claude
Vrinet will try some French food American-style when he visits Maison Robert
today for lunch. He will then go to a reception at Providence in Brookline for a
champagne-tasting with about 100 restaurateurs from the area. Vrinet, who is
traveling around the States to promote a new champagne bottled under his name,
had lunch with former president George Bush in Kennebunkport, Maine, last week.

Williams passes along the kindness of strangers

    When WBZ-TV anchor Jack Williams was notified by a law firm a few months ago
that he was named in someone's will - someone he never heard of - he was
shocked. Still is, in fact. But Dorothy St. James of Brockton left $ 10,000 to
Williams' "Wednesday's Child," in which he features special-needs children in
need of adoption. He recently received the check and has passed it on to the
Mass. Adoption Resources Exchange, which acts as the link between Williams'
14-year-old program and the DSS. All he knows is that a paralegal at a law firm
in Brockton handled St. James' estate. "I know nothing about her except that
she's part of a quiet group who appreciates what we're doing," Williams said.

Angel of the Opera

    A Long Island businessman certainly has a soft spot for "The Phantom of the
Opera," ever since he met his wife at the show in 1988. Daniel Lehner, chief
executive officer of Lehner International, has purchased every seat for a
December performance of the Broadway show and will donate the tickets for a
charity fund-raiser. He spent about $ 85,000 for the tickets; they will be
distributed to nonprofit organizations, which can sell them to supporters at a
premium and keep the proceeds. Lehner, a millionaire who's known for
philanthropy and a lavish lifestyle, and his wife have seen the show 120 times.

Capitol calling

    The task of putting together The Hill, a new paper to cover life on Capitol
Hill, has forced journalist Albert Eisele to put aside work on a biography of
Cardinal Richard Cushing. Eisele, who was Walter Mondale's press secretary, is
among the few researchers to have used the recently discovered papers at the
archdiocesan archives. "There isn't much there," said Eisele, echoing other
researchers, but he has found several other caches of Cushing papers in
unexpected places. Originally intending to publish his book during this
centennial year, Eisele hopes to have it completed in another two years. . . .
Lee Eisenberg, former editor-in-chief at Esquire, will be top dog at Time
Digital, a new publication for techies and their friends, when it debuts this
fall as an insert in Time. The new magazine, which Eisenberg helped develop,
will start inside about a quarter of Time's 4 million subscriber copies and is
slated to appear at least four times a year.

Shotgun shell stops Love

    When a fan threw a shotgun shell onto the stage, rock singer Courtney Love
responded by walking out of her Lollapalooza show in Pittsburgh. Love's husband,
rocker Kurt Cobain, used a shotgun to kill himself last year. "One singular
individual with a very sick mind threw something so offensive onto the stage
that it was no longer possible for the band to continue," an announcer told
about 15,000 people Monday after Love left with her band, Hole.

One Douglas who doesn't know how to act

    Kirk Douglas' son Eric was taken to court Sunday night after being
disruptive on an American Airlines flight. Eric Douglas, 36, became combative,
"loud and obnoxious" after refusing to place his dog in a pet carrier in
violation of federal regulations and grabbing a flight attendant's buttocks,
according to an FBI affidavit. FBI agents arrested Douglas in Los Angeles after
the flight from New York landed. He was released on $ 25,000 bail and scheduled
for a preliminary hearing on Aug. 21. He had been scheduled to appear Monday for
a hearing on a felony cocaine possession charge from last October.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. AP PHOTO / NOW HE HAS IT - Choreographer Geoffrey Holder,
honored for lifelong achievement at the National Black Theatre Festival this
week, regales an audience at the Winston-Salem, N.C., gathering with tales of
his birth. A two-time Tony winner, Holder was also the "Never had it, never
will" guy on TV 7-Up commercials.  2. GEFFEN 3. KENNEDY

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1995


                             191 of 1820 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1995 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                             August 1, 1995 Tuesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: OHSU'S SEA CHANGE

BODY:

   Tuesday, August 1, 1995 OHSU'S SEA CHANGE

   Summary - Here's how the public should judge the university now that  it's
free to swim with the sharks

   Oregon Health Sciences University entered a new era this month when it
escaped the net of state-agency bureaucracy and began life anew as a public
corporation.

   Now OHSU administrators, faculty and their new board of directors will  begin
the tough work of rethinking staffing, tenure, retirement programs,  purchasing
arrangements and other operational issues. The university must  figure out how
to train doctors and nurses for excellence while keeping an  academic hospital
afloat in today's competitive health-care environment.

   The Legislature didn't linger long over its decision to convert OHSU, so
there are still plenty of questions about what the public should expect to  gain
from the change. Here are the measures by which Oregonians should judge  the
OHSU venture:

   - Has the university cut overhead costs significantly so that scarce tax
dollars can be concentrated on providing top-notch medical education?

   - Has the university continued to provide quality health care for the poor
and indigent, including those who do not qualify for the Oregon Health Plan?

   - Has the university focused its physician training on producing general
practitioners, who are in short supply, rather than more specialists in fields
that are already saturated?

   - Has the university developed national models that guarantee excellent  care
will be delivered within the financial constraints of managed-care  systems?

   - Has the university upgraded its specialty programs so they rank in the  top
10 nationally?

   - Have faculty members attracted new grant money to fund research in the
most promising fields, especially gene therapy?

   - Have new patents been developed by university faculty, increasing the
university's long-term royalty income?

   - Has the university initiated collaborative programs with area hospitals  to
share expertise and avoid wasteful duplication of service?

   The OHSU experience should provide lawmakers with a real-world test of
whether other schools in the State System of Higher Education could operate more
effectively under a public corporation structure.

   In the meantime, OHSU has its work cut out for it. With tax dollars  dropping
to only a tenth of its budget, the university's future rests on the  salability
of its health services and the competitiveness of its research.

   The health care seas are rough. This experiment will show whether OHSU can
make it to the top.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006


                             192 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                      August 1, 1995 Tuesday, FINAL / WEST

SECTION: EVERYWOMAN; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: BREAST EXPERT SPURNS SELF-EXAMS, MASTECTOMIES

BYLINE: By NANCY MILLS; CHICAGO TRIBUNE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

BODY:

   Dr. Susan Love is not short on opinion, no matter what the circumstance.

   "This sweet young reporter from Ms. magazine called me the other day and
said, 'We're doing a story about breast self-exam,' and I lit into her about how
not only did I think there was no evidence that it saves women but that I think
it does them harm,' recalls Love, one of the world's leading breast experts.

   "It alienates you from your breast. Your breast is a nice part of you, and
instead it's your mission to find the hidden land mine that's going to do you
in, and if you don't find it, it's your fault."

   That's Love in a nutshell - outspoken, controversial and caring. As director
of the Revlon/UCLA Breast Center and co-founder of the National Breast Cancer
Coalition, a grass-roots advocacy group, she is determined to clarify all the
myths and misunderstandings surrounding breast cancer.

   "I feel badly for women not getting the information they need," says Love,
who has just completed the second edition of "Dr. Susan Love's Breast Book"
(Addison-Wesley, $17). "Women have been known to show the book to their surgeon.
Some will be offended, but is he or she the surgeon you want? A lot of things
have happened in breast cancer in the last decade, and not all doctors are up to
date."

   What is it that many doctors and patients don't know?

   In addition to the false expectations of breast self-exams, Love says
mammograms don't reduce deaths in women under 50, treatment decisions shouldn't
be rushed because breast cancer grows slowly, and lumpectomies combined with
radiation are as good as mastectomies in preventing recurrence of cancer. She
recommends second opinions, and she encourages political action.

   "I think we're very close to being able to figure out what some of these
early genetic changes are that lead to cancer," she says. "Then we'll fix them."

   A woman of action, Love wants women to take charge of their lives. It's a
principle she has followed practically from birth in Long Branch, N.J., in 1948.

   "I'm the oldest of five, and to a certain degree I've always had to be a
leader. I don't think about rules very much until they come back to bite me. I
tend to take control and then try to figure out how to deal with the
consequences."

   A short, trim woman with dark curly hair, Love inspires fanatical devotion
from her staff as well as her patients, who come from around the world.

   Since 1994, she has been working on a breast cancer panel set up by President
Clinton. She also does cancer support group work and full-week rotations with
fourth-year medical students and first-year residents.

   "Dr. Love is straightforward and totally outspoken," says her secretary,
Connie Long. "You know where you stand. And of course, you know about her
landmark court case in Massachusetts and that she's a lesbian?"

   There are no secrets at UCLA's Breast Center, and that's the way Love likes
it.

   "Since I came out to myself, I've always been out," she says. "There are less
repercussions when you're out. People are too polite to give you a hard time to
your face. I don't care what they do behind my back. If a patient doesn't want
to see me because I'm a lesbian, well, I wouldn't notice because I turn away so
many patients.

   "It's much more mentally healthy to be true to yourself. I feel an obligation
in life to be out because I can afford to be out. My problems are the problems
of a working mother with a 7-year-old."

   Love and her partner, Dr. Helen Cooksey, are raising Love's daughter, Kate,
together.

   "Helen tried to get pregnant and didn't, so I got pregnant with her cousin,"
Love says. "Because I was the birth mother I had all the rights, and Helen had
none.

   The two doctors went to court seeking permission for Cooksey to adopt Kate.
In 1993 the state supreme court granted the request.

   Love learned early how to go her own way.

   "My father worked for a big American company and was transferred to Puerto
Rico when I was young," she recalls. "In my school I was the only mainland
American. Everyone else spoke Spanish. I learned what it was like not to be the
predominant culture."

   At junior high school in Mexico City, her biology teacher, a nun, got her
interested in science, and she decided to become a doctor. While studying premed
at Notre Dame of Maryland, Love joined a convent for eight months.

   "The time wasn't right for me to be a nun," she says. "Maybe it would have
worked at a different time."

   Love transferred to Fordham University and then entered State University of
New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn. She did her surgical residency at
Boston's Beth Israel Hospital - "I was the second woman to finish the training
program," she notes - and in 1980 opened a private practice in general surgery.

   "I was bound and determined I could do big operations as well as anyone
else," says Love, who initially resisted becoming a breast surgeon.

   "But I soon discovered that here was a group of people not treated with
respect, who were being patronized and not given options. They were suffering a
lot because of it. I realized that this was a place I could make a really
significant difference."

   In 1982, she joined the Breast Evaluation Clinic of Dana Farber Cancer
Institute in Boston and six years later established the Faulkner Breast Clinic.
In 1992, she became director of the Revlon/UCLA Breast Center and associate
professor of clinical surgery at UCLA's School of Medicine.

   "I wanted to see if I could teach this stuff to surgical medical residents,"
Love says.

   "Being in a medical school, for all its political bureaucracy, you do have a
chance to impact medical students and residents while they're still changeable."

   With her forthright manner and crusading spirit, Love has affected breast
cancer treatment. She was one of the pioneers of the lumpectomy, and she
continues to be a strong supporter of this less-invasive procedure.

   "It's not true that if you cut your breast off, the cancer will never come
back," she says. "The rate of recurrence in the scar is the same as it is with a
lumpectomy and radiation. In any operation, we can never get all the breast
tissue out. Even preventive mastectomies haven't been shown to prevent breast
cancer because there's still breast tissue left."

   In her book and in conversation, Love deals with numerous breast cancer
myths. For instance, she says, "Cancer does not go from BB-size to pea to grape
to walnut. Some people's cancer will show up overnight the size of a grapefruit.
It never was a pea. Breast self-exams have never been shown to do any good. Why
do we sell it so vigorously? Because we don't have anything else.

   "What you're feeling is not the cancer cells but the reaction around them.
The average cancer is found at 2 centimeters because that's when it becomes
feel-able. The same thing with mammography. You're seeing the reaction. Some
cancers have a lot of reaction, but a lot of them don't. Some of it is luck."

   Love advises against rushing to make a decision about treatment, noting, "By
the time breast cancer is discovered, it's probably been there eight to 10
years. The cancer cells get out not through the lymph nodes but through the
bloodstream in the first two to three years."

   In addition to discounting breast self-exams, Love says: "We've oversold
mammograms. It's a combination of wishful thinking and the fact that we have
nothing else. In fact, mammogram screenings will reduce the mortality rate of
women under 50.

   "Mammograms can see 80 percent of cancers, and they can see certain cancers
very early. Early cancer is 90 percent curable, but mammograms don't see every
cancer, particularly in younger women, and not every cancer is capable of being
found early."

   The answers, Love believes, lie in political action and molecular biology.

   "We don't know what causes breast cancer, and we don't know how to prevent
it," she says. "We must get a blood test, which is the only way to tell when the
cells begin to change. Then we'll do gene therapy.

   "I think we're very close. We've increased our research funds enormously. I
think within my lifetime we won't be treating breast cancer with surgery,
radiation and chemotherapy, which I call slash, burn and poison. It's a very
crude, very dumb way to deal with breast cancer. It doesn't always work, but
it's the best we have.

   "Until recently, there's been absolutely no change in the mortality rate.
Now, young women are doing a little better, but African-American groups are
doing worse. Through the grass-roots efforts of women with breast cancer and the
people who care about them, we've been able to make this difference. We want
women with breast cancer to be at the table helping to decide the most fruitful
places to spend money. I'm very optimistic."

   When she's at full throttle, Love sounds like a politician, but she denies
any political aspirations.

   "I don't know how far I'd get, certainly not far in the present political
climate," she says. "Look what happened to Jocelyn Elders. She was a good,
plain-speaking woman. I don't know if being tactful is the right way to be.
We've been good little girls too long, and we've been trusting too long."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY:NO CREDIT; Dr. Susan Love, one of the world's leading breast
experts, is determined to clarify the myths and misunderstandings surrounding
breast cancer. "I feel badly for women not getting the information they need,"
says the outspoken doctor.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1995


                             193 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1995 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                      July 30, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, Pg. 12F

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY PROVES TO BE TOUGH CHALLENGE

BYLINE: ROBERT S. BOYD; Knight-Ridder

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Gene therapy, the bright hope for curing cancer, AIDS, diabetes and a host of
other stubborn diseases, is turning out to be a tougher challenge than
anticipated.

   For more than 20 years, scientists have been working toward the day when they
could repair or replace human genes -- either flawed at birth or damaged during
life -- that cause the body's machinery to break down.

   Researchers have learned a tremendous amount about how to cut up, redesign
and assemble genes in glass dishes and in animals. They have successfully
transferred bits and pieces of corrected genes into dozens of people.

   Since the first human test five years ago, almost 250 patients have been
enrolled in 105 gene therapy experiments at 14 research centers around the
nation.

   But at the National Institutes of Health here, specialists in gene therapy
acknowledged that they are running into unexpected obstacles in applying their
infant science to curing sick people. Gene therapy has not yet been shown to
significantly improve human health.

   "Despite enthusiastic interest," an NIH panel of experts declared, "evidence
for therapeutic benefits to patients is meager."

   Nonetheless, researchers said they were determined to plow ahead.

   "The field is poised to move forward significantly," said Dr. Arthur Nienhuis
of St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tenn.

   The panel of 14 distinguished doctors and scientists was appointed last
winter by NIH Director Harold Varmus to assess what has been accomplished by the
federal investment of almost $ 200 million a year in gene therapy.

   "We're spending a lot of money on this, and we want to make sure we're doing
it right," Varmus said. "Some things look good, some not so good."

   In addition, universities and private research organizations are spending
millions more on this awe-inspiring science, which tinkers with DNA, the
threadlike molecule that governs the operation of every living cell.

   Along with some of the most intricate problems in biology and chemistry, gene
therapy raises profound moral and ethical issues. Policymakers have forbidden
researchers to alter genes in reproductive cells that might be passed on to
future generations. Meddling with genes that might affect a person's appearance,
behavior or intelligence is also considered out of bounds.

   Genes consist of strands of DNA that direct cells to produce proteins or
enzymes necessary for life, to divide and multiply, even to die. In gene
therapy, a segment of DNA is inserted into a cell, where it is supposed to take
over the function of a defective gene.

   The key problem at this point is finding a way to transfer healthy genes into
ailing cells without causing more harm than good.

   "We're not even close to being there yet," Thomas Shenk, a molecular
biologist at Princeton University, told the NIH panel.

   "It's like peeling an onion," said Shenk, who is testing gene therapy to
treat cystic fibrosis, a lethal lung disorder that affects one out of every
2,500 children. "You get layer after layer of complexity."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1995


                             194 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 30, 1995, Sunday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: OBITUARY, Pg. C3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: WALLACE C. STEINBERG;
Creative, risk-taking wielder of health care fund

BYLINE: Gina Kolata, The New York Times

BODY:


   Wallace C. Steinberg, the chairman of Healthcare Investment Corp., the
largest venture capital fund devoted to health care, died Wednesday. He was 61.

   He died in his sleep at his home in Rumson, N.J., said Dr. James H.
Cavanaugh, the company's president.

   Mr. Steinberg was willing to risk millions on untested futuristic notions
that nonetheless held the promise of revolutionizing medicine.

   He was among the first to promote gene therapy and to invest in the study of
animal organs for human transplantation.

   Mr. Steinberg also was a master at generating enthusiasm for his ideas,
thereby luring investors. He explained in an interview in 1992 that ''the basis
of Healthcare Investment is to conceive of where medicine is going before anyone
else thinks of it.''

   And to pursue those goals, Mr. Steinberg was ready and willing to pull
strings and offer lures to get the nation's most outstanding scientists to work
for him.

   With $ 378 million available for investment, his firm had the resources and
the power to make Mr. Steinberg's visions a reality.

   One way Mr. Steinberg sought to transform his vision was his formation of a
company to develop a new source of organs for transplants.

   Several years ago, Mr. Steinberg talked of a day when animal organs could be
transplanted into humans, without using powerful drugs to suppress the immune
system. He began asking around to find who would be the best person to direct
such research and which would be the best medical school to conduct the studies.

   He decided that person would be Dr. David Sachs, who was then working at the
National Institutes of Health, and that the medical center would be the
Massachusetts General Hospital.

   So, in March 1990, Mr. Steinberg formed a company called Biotransplant. He
lured Sachs from the institutes to head the company's scientific advisory board
by arranging a faculty position for him at both Harvard Medical School and the
Massachusetts General Hospital.

   Within six months, Mr. Steinberg had invested $ 6 million in the company and
had persuaded Sandoz Corp. to contribute $ 5 million. Other companies are
optimistic about the same strategy, and one, Nextran, is planning transplants of
gene-altered pig organs to humans within the next 30 days.

   Another company, Human Genome Sciences, arose from Mr. Steinberg's belief
that the future of drug development may hinge on finding genes that can be used
as the basis of new treatments.

   Mr. Steinberg entered this field when a scientist at the National Institutes
of Health, Dr. J. Craig Venter, developed an automated shortcut to finding
genes. Many scientists harshly criticized Dr. Venter's methods as risky and
uncertain, and controversy surrounded the NIH application for patents on
snippets of genes he had found.

   Soon, Venter's grant applications were being refused. Mr. Steinberg, however,
said he thought that Venter was leading an international race to lock up the
human genome.

   And, he said, the NIH simply could not invest enough money in Venter's work
to make it truly competitive.

   ''I said to myself, 'My God, if this thing doesn't get done in a substantive
way in the United States, that is the end of biotechnology in the U.S.,' '' Mr.
Steinberg said.

   But Venter said he did not want to head a company and become a capitalist but
wanted to remain a scientist pursuing research.

   So, Mr. Steinberg put together a customized deal that appealed to Venter. He
formed a nonprofit institution, the Institute for Genomic Research, with a
budget of more than $ 85 million a year and made Venter its director.

   The researcher could pursue any scientific goals he wished and could publish
all of his results in scientific journals. But, before publication, he must
allow Human Genome Sciences, Mr. Steinberg's new company, to study the genes for
6 months or, in the case of genes it wanted to commercialize, for 12 months.

   The gamble appears to have paid off. Venter has now deciphered the first full
set of genes from a living organism, the entire genetic database of the
bacterium Hemophilus influenzae. When Venter applied to the NIH for funds when
he started the project, he was turned down and told that what he was proposing
could not be done.

   About a year ago, SmithKline Beecham invested $ 125 million for 10 percent of
Human Genome Sciences.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1995


                             195 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 30, 1995, Sunday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL; OBITUARIES; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Murray Miron, expert on terrorism

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

DATELINE: SYRACUSE, N.Y.

BODY:


   Dr. Murray Miron, 62, an expert on terrorism who advised law enforcement
agencies on the Unabomber, Branch Davidians, Patty Hearst and Son of Sam, died
Wednesday of pancreatic cancer.

   Dr. Miron gave the FBI four separate analyses of the written and spoken
words of David Koresh in the final 10 days of the standoff between federal
agents and the cult at its compound near Waco, Texas, in 1993. A calculation
central to the decision to proceed with the final tear-gas attack by the
federal agents on the compound was that Koresh was not likely to respond by
harming himself.

   During weeks of analyzing him, a team of experts - some from the FBI's
Behavioral Science Unit - drafted a profile of him that all but ruled out
suicide. Later, Dr. Miron said: "We felt this was an individual who was
extraordinarily vain and very fearful of physical injury."



      WALLACE C. STEINBERG, 61, the chairman of Healthcare Investment Corp., the

 largest venturecapital fund devoted to health care, died Wednesday. He died in

 his sleep at his home in Rumson, N.J., said James H. Cavanaugh, the company's
president. Mr. Steinberg was willing to risk millions on untested futuristic
notions that nonetheless held the promise of revolutionizing medicine. He was
among the first to promote gene therapy and to invest in the study of animal
organs for transplanting in human beings. At Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Steinberg
developed the idea for the Reach toothbrush, following his hunch that he could
succeed in marketing a brand-name toothbrush made to help remove plaque, even
though the president, vice president and chairman of the company thought the
idea would not work. Not only did he succeed, but Reach became the  best-selling
toothbrush in the world. Mr. Steinberg attributed his success in  part to what
he said was his way of thinking with "simple clarity." He  worked Monday through
Thursday at his company's offices in Metro Park, N.J.,  spending long weekends
playing tennis and going dancing at night with his  wife, Maria.

   Local obituaries and the Suncoast Deaths list appear in regional sections.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1995


                             196 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1995 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                      July 30, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL (NEWS), Pg. 6C, DEATHS ELSEWHERE

LENGTH: 575 words

BODY:


   Wallace C. Steinberg, 61, chairman of Healthcare Investment Corp., the
largest venture capital fund devoted to health care, died in his sleep of an
undisclosed cause Wednesday in Rumson, N.J.

   Greatly interested in biotechnology, he was among the first to promote gene
therapy and to invest in the current studies of animal organs for human
transplantation. He was willing to risk millions on untested futuristic notions
that held the promise of revolutionizing medicine.

   With $ 378 million available for investment, his firm had the resources and
the power to make its chairman's visions a reality.

   After earning a bachelor's degree in pharmacology and a master's degree in
pharmaceutical chemistry at Rutgers University, he was a technical director for
Sterling Drug International, then spent 21 years at Johnson & Johnson, where he
eventually was made responsible for venture capital, strategic planning and
mergers.

   At Johnson & Johnson, one of his ideas was the Reach toothbrush that,
marketed as a plaque-reaching devices, became the world's best-selling
toothbrush, he said.

   He dreamed of living forever, optimistically saying that all the ills and
degenerative conditions of aging are, at least in theory, correctable. "I have
this theory that death is a genetic disease," he said in an interview several
years ago. "There is no religious, preordained reason to die."

   Ted Hook, 65, a chorus dancer who said he had appeared in 403 movies and who
turned into an impromptu impresario at his New York restaurant, Backstage, died
of pneumonia July 19 in Manhattan. Until he opened Backstage on West 45th Street
in 1973 for what turned out to be a decade-long run, his greatest claims to fame
were that he had set a Las Vegas duration record for a dancer (64 weeks at the
Sands Hotel) and had spent five years as Tallulah Bankhead's secretary.

   Morris Braunstein, 68, a scientist who invented liquid crystal display -- LCD
-- technology used in digital watches, microwave ovens and laptop computers,
died Monday of diabetes in Los Angeles.

   During his 20-year career at Hughes Research Laboratory, where he worked on
the Strategic Defense Initiative, he also patented four other inventions
involving laser and optical technology.

   He also helped create hypoallergenic cosmetics when he worked for Almay
cosmetics in the 1950s.

   Eddie Hinton, 50, a musician and songwriter who developed a reputation as a
crack session guitarist in Muscle Shoals, Ala., studios during the late 1960s,
died Friday at his mother's Birmingham, Ala., home. The cause of death was not
known.

   He co-wrote "Breakfast in Bed," "Choo-Choo Train" and "You're All Around Me."

   Don Carpenter, 64, a novelist and sometime screenwriter whose unflinching
examinations of disheveled lives won more critical acclaim than popular favor,
killed himself Thursday in Mill Valley, Calif. His family and friends said
Carpenter, who had a deep distrust of doctors, had been distressed by mounting
medical problems, including diabetes, tuberculosis and allergies. He was hailed
as a serious literary figure from the moment his first novel, "Hard Rain
Falling," was published in 1966. Carpenter's works included "Blade of Light,"
"Getting Off," "A Couple of Comedians" and the movie "Payday." The 1973 movie
about a day in the life of a country music singer played by Rip Torn is a cult
classic that has been described as the best movie about country music ever made.

TYPE: OBITUARY

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1995


                             197 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1995, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

NAME: Wallace C. Steinberg

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 27;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Wallace Steinberg Dies at 61; Backed Health Care Ventures

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

BODY:

   Wallace C. Steinberg, the chairman of the Healthcare Investment Corporation,
the largest venture capital fund devoted to health care, died on Wednesday at
his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 61.

    He died in his sleep, said Dr. James H. Cavanaugh, the company's president.

    Mr. Steinberg was willing to risk millions on untested futuristic notions
that nonetheless held the promise of revolutionizing medicine. He was among the
first to promote gene therapy and to invest in the study of animal organs for
human transplantation. Mr. Steinberg was also a master at generating enthusiasm
for his ideas, thereby luring investors.

    He explained in an interview in 1992 that "the basis of Healthcare
Investment is to conceive of where medicine is going before anyone else thinks
of it."

    And to pursue those goals, he was ready and willing to pull strings and
offer lures to get the nation's most outstanding scientists to work for him.
With $378 million available for investment, his company had the resources and
the power to make Mr. Steinberg's visions a reality.

    One way he sought to transform his vision was his formation of a company to
develop a new source of organs for transplants. Several years ago, he talked of
a day when animal organs could be transplanted into humans, without using
powerful drugs to suppress the immune system. He began asking around to find who
would be the best person to direct such research and which medical school would
be the best to conduct the studies.

    He decided that person would be Dr. David Sachs, who was then working at the
National Institutes of Health, and that the medical center would be the
Massachusetts General Hospital.

    So, in March 1990, Mr. Steinberg formed a company called Biotransplant. He
lured Dr. Sachs from the institutes to head the company's scientific advisory
board by arranging a faculty position for him at both Harvard Medical School and
the Massachusetts General Hospital.

    Within six months, Mr. Steinberg had invested $6 million in Biotransplant
and had persuaded the Sandoz Corporation to contribute $5 million. Other
companies are optimistic about the same strategy, and one, Nextran, is planning
transplants of gene-altered pig organs to humans within the next 30 days.

    Another company, Human Genome Sciences, arose from Mr. Steinberg's belief
that the future of drug development may hinge on finding genes that can be used
as the basis of new treatments. Mr. Steinberg entered this field when a
scientist at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. J. Craig Venter, developed
an automated shortcut to finding genes.

    Many scientists harshly criticized Dr. Venter's methods as risky and
uncertain, and controversy surrounded the N.I.H. application for patents on
snippets of genes he had found.

    Soon, Dr. Venter's grant applications were being refused. But Mr. Steinberg
said he thought Dr. Venter was leading an international race to lock up the
human genome. And, he said, the health institutes simply could not invest enough
money in Dr. Venter's work to make it truly competitive.

    "I said to myself, 'My God, if this thing doesn't get done in a substantive
way in the United States, that is the end of biotechnology in the U.S.,' " Mr.
Steinberg said.

    But Dr. Venter said he did not want to head a company and become a
capitalist but wanted to remain a scientist pursuing research.

    So, Mr. Steinberg put together a customized deal that appealed to Dr.
Venter. He formed a nonprofit institution, the Institute for Genomic Research,
with a budget of more than $85 million a year and made Dr. Venter its director.
The researcher could pursue any scientific goals he wished and could publish all
of his results in scientific journals. But, before publication, he must allow
Human Genome Sciences, Mr. Steinberg's new company, to study the genes for 6
months or, in the case of genes it wanted to commercialize, for 12 months.

    The gamble appears to have paid off. Dr. Venter has now deciphered the first
full set of genes from a living organism, the entire genetic database of the
bacterium Hemophilus influenzae. When Dr. Venter applied to the health
institutes for money when he started the project, he was turned down and told
that what he was proposing could not be done.

    About a year ago, SmithKline Beecham invested $125 million for 10 percent of
Human Genome Sciences.

    Another of Dr. Steinberg's successes is Genetic Therapies Inc., formed in
1986. Dr. Cavanaugh of Healthcare Investment said Mr. Steinberg had decided that
the future of medicine after the millennium would be in gene therapy, and so he
formed a company intended to be a leader in the field.

    In an interview in 1990, Mr. Steinberg said Genetic Therapies had been set
up specifically to be bought out by a large drug company. "The ultimate payoff
will be when a large pharmaceutical company realizes it needs a position in gene
therapy," he said at that time. Earlier this month, Sandoz announced it was
buying the company for $295 million.

    Mr. Steinberg was born in Brooklyn and earned both a bachelor's degree in
pharmacology and a master's degree in pharmaceutical chemistry from Rutgers
University. He was a technical director for Sterling Drug International and then
spent 21 years at Johnson & Johnson, where he was eventually made responsible
for venture capital, strategic planning and mergers.

    At Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Steinberg developed the idea for the Reach
toothbrush, following his hunch that he could succeed in marketing a brand-name
toothbrush made to help remove plaque, even though the company's president, vice
president and chairman thought the idea would not work.

    Not only did he succeed, but Reach became the best-selling toothbrush in the
world, Mr. Steinberg said.

    He attributed his success in part to what he said was his way of thinking
with "simple clarity." He worked Monday through Thursday at his company's
offices in Metro Park, N.J., spending long weekends playing tennis and going out
dancing at night with his wife, Maria.

    He dreamed of living forever, optimistically saying that all the ills and
degenerative conditions of aging were, at least in theory, correctable. "I have
this theory that death is a genetic disease," he said in an interview several
years ago. "There is no religious, preordained reason to die."

    Mr. Steinberg fantasized about getting a new heart and kidneys from animals
developed by Biotransplant. He told Dr. Sachs that when the two of them were 70
years old: "I am going to take your hand in mine, and I will walk into
Massachusetts General Hospital. We will get a room with two beds, and we'll both
have a prophylactic heart and kidney transplant."

    His first marriage, to Rose Schram of Delray Beach, Fla., ended in divorce.

    In addition to his wife, Mr. Steinberg is survived by four children from his
first marriage, David, of Rumson; Robert, of Highlands, N.J.; Jeffrey, of
Sayreville, N.J., and Laurie Kinkead of Little Silver, N.J.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wallace C. Steinberg (John Sotomayor/The New York Times, 1992)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995


                             198 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1995 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        July 28, 1995 Friday 2D EDITION

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. E-02

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Artists savor CSU welcome

BYLINE: Joanne Davidson

BODY:

   Nice things come in small packages and the intimate dinner that Colorado
State University President Al Yates and his wife, Ann, gave for artists Jacob
and Gwendolyn Lawrence was a treasure with good food, stimulating conversation
and a wonderful mix of personalities.

   Jacob Lawrence, 78, is considered one of the finest African-American artists
of this century. He and his wife, who also is a painter, had come to Colorado
from their Seattle home for the July 15 opening of "Jacob Lawrence: The
Migration Series" at the Denver Art Museum. The exhibit can be viewed through
Sept. 10.

   Relaxing on the patio of the Yates' Fort Collins home, Lawrence explained to
the 26 guests that he painted the 60-piece "Migration Series" in 1940 and '41,
when he was 23 years old. Half of the works were subsequently purchased by the
Museum of Modern Art in New York, with the remainder going to the Phillips
Collection in Washington, D.C. The Denver exhibit is only the second time in 50
years that all 60 pieces have been shown together.

   Attorney Charles Casteel drove up from Denver with his mother-in-law,
Margaret Young. She's the widow of Urban League founder Whitney Young, and her
daughter, Lauren, is president of the Hunt Alternatives Fund in Denver. She has
known the Lawrences for many years.

   Also up from Denver was attorney Buddy Noel, a past president of the state
board of agriculture and retiring president of the Colorado Sports Council, and
his wife, Joni; Denver Art Museum Director Lewis Sharp, accompanied by Daphne
Holmes, the museum's manager of public affairs; dancer-choreographer Cleo Parker
Robinson and her husband, Tom, a teacher at Regis Jesuit High School; and Les
Franklin, director of the Governor's Job Training Office, and his wife,
Marianne.

   From the CSU "family" came Loren Crabtree, dean of the College of Liberal
Arts, and his wife, Monica Christian, who recently joined the CSU staff after
seven years with Advanced Energy; Carolyn Fowler, a professor of foreign
languages and literatures and former director of the Center for Applied Studies
in American Ethnicity; artist Stan Schmid, the interim vice president for
university advancement; and Nancy Erskine, an associate professor of art, with
hubby Alan Garten.

   Also, Marcia Robinson, whose husband, Dick, is a CSU alumnus; the American
Heart Association's physician of the year, Reginald Washington, and his wife,
Faye; Vincent Harding, professor of religion and social transformation at Iliff
School of Theology, and his guest, Sudarshan Kapur; and Dorothy Bland, publisher
of the Fort Collins Coloradoan.

   GOAL IS TOPPED: When Michael Ann Hanzel became president of the Cancer League
of Colorado last year, her board set a fund-raising goal of $ 250,000. Earlier
this month, they distributed $ 311,000 in service and research grants.

   The recipients range from scientists at local health facilities to caregivers
at Boulder County Hospice. Drs. L. Michael Glode and Yaron Lidor from the
University of Colorado Cancer Center, for example, received $ 5,836 to research
gene therapy techniques to attack ovarian cancer cells. Steve Dow at National
Jewish Center received $ 20,000 for his study of combined genetic immunotherapy
for melanoma. AMC Cancer Research Center is putting its $ 10,000 award toward
breast-cancer screenings for urban American Indian women.

   Most of the money - $ 186,000 - was raised at the spring benefit, Cruise the
Rockies. In addition, two golf events brought in $ 26,000; the Cancer League's
share of a June 29 screening of "Apollo 13" was $ 12,000; the King Foundation
gave $ 30,000; an Oktoberfest in Boulder raised $ 13,000; and $ 27,000 came from
memorials.

   "We have a big job ahead of us," admits Hanzel's successor, Doris Southworth,
"but with the continued support of our members and donors, we're confident we'll
be able to maintain those big numbers."

   THIS AND THAT: On Aug. 8, the America-Israel Friendship League hosts a
breakfast meeting with Ido Aharoni, Israel's Los Angeles-based consul for
communications and public affairs. It's from 7:30 to 9 a.m. at the downtown
Hyatt Regency; tickets are $ 12 and reservations can be phoned to 758-9503
For the second year, Texaco is lead sponsor for the ArtReach Festival of Trees,
Nov. 19-26 at the Inverness Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1995


                             199 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 28, 1995, Friday, REGION EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Expert tempers expectations for gene therapy

BYLINE: Michael Woods, Science Editor, Block News Alliance

DATELINE: BAR HARBOR, Maine

BODY:


   An international authority on gene therapy yesterday urged that news media
and scientists give the public more realistic information about this rapidly
emerging area of medicine.

   Savio Woo said the journalists are fostering ''false and unrealistic'' public
expectations that gene therapy soon will be widely available for treating
diseases. He is with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston.

   ''Public expectations are far too high,'' Woo told medical reporters invited
to a genetics symposium. The event, the Short Course in Medical and Experimental
Mammalian Genetics, is sponsored by Johns Hopkins University and the Jackson
Laboratory.

   ''We cannot go on this way too much longer without serious problems,'' Woo
said. ''The expectations we are creating are too unrealistic.  And the backlash
will come.''

   Scientists, he explained, are concerned that public support for gene therapy
research will fade as expectations raised by news reports fail to materialize.
Such a backlash could further postpone the day when genes can be given like
conventional medicine -- as an injection or pill.

   At present, virtually all forms of gene therapy are in the early stages of
development as drugs, Woo said. Their safety and effectiveness have not been
established. Likewise, existing gene therapy techniques tend to involve
ponderous laboratory procedures that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to
treat a single patient.

   Gene therapy, he emphasized, does hold great promise to revolutionize
medicine, producing new treatments for thousands of diseases. These range from
birth defects to conditions like heart disease and cancer that develop later in
life.

   The very simplest kind of gene therapy involves replacing a defective gene
with a normal copy, so that a patient's diseased cells function normally. But
the technology can be used in more complex ways. For instance, researchers are
testing gene therapy to kill unwanted cells, such as cancer cells or immune
system cells infected with the AIDS virus.

   Woo could not predict when today's efforts to develop gene therapy will lead
to a reasonably inexpensive injections or pills suitable for general medical
use. But his comments suggested a time frame of many years, even if scientists
quickly overcome daunting technical barriers.

   The hurdles range from a lack of basic knowledge about how cells function to
the lack of a suitable way of inserting large numbers of medicinal genes into
diseased cells.

   Woo said the problems with news coverage of gene therapy often begin when the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approves a human gene therapy experiment, or
clinical trial. News accounts often declare that FDA has approved gene therapy
for heart disease or cancer.

   In reality, FDA often is approving only early tests of gene therapy on a few
patients. The goal typically is to determine if gene therapy is toxic, or if a
gene therapy approach shows any sign of effectiveness.

   For conventional drugs at this stage of development, years of additional work
usually are necessary before the medication is ready for general use. Many drugs
that go into early tests fall by the wayside as ineffective or too toxic.

NOTES:
Michael Woods is science editor of The Blade of Toledo, Ohio, and the Block News
Alliance. The Associated Press contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1995


                             200 of 1820 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1995 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 28, 1995, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Expert tempers expectations for gene therapy

BYLINE: Michael Woods, Science Editor, Block News Alliance

DATELINE: BAR HARBOR, Maine

BODY:


   An international authority on gene therapy yesterday urged that news media
and scientists give the public more realistic information about this rapidly
emerging area of medicine.

   Savio Woo said the journalists are fostering ''false and unrealistic'' public
expectations that gene therapy soon will be widely available for treating
diseases.

   Woo, a biologist with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston, issued his caution as he reported on his success
in eradicating brain tumors and colon cancer in lab animals by injecting them
with viruses armed with ''suicide genes.''

   Similar experiments have also corrected hemophilia in dogs, when the viruses
were engineered to carry a gene to repair the blood-clotting defect, he said.

   Woo said he is ''tremendously optimistic'' about the new science of gene
therapy. But he tempered his optimism with a reminder that enormous scientific
obstacles remain to be overcome before the research leads to a safe, effective
treatment.

   ''Public expectations are far too high,'' Woo told medical reporters invited
to a genetics symposium.

   The event, the Short Course in Medical and Experimental Mammalian Genetics,
is sponsored by Johns Hopkins University and the Jackson Laboratory.

   ''We cannot go on this way too much longer without serious problems,'' Woo
said. ''The expectations we are creating are too unrealistic. And the backlash
will come.''

   Scientists, he explained, are concerned that public support for gene therapy
research will fade as expectations raised by news reports fail to materialize.
Such a backlash could further postpone the day when genes can be given like
conventional medicine -- as an injection or pill.

   At present, virtually all forms of gene therapy are in the early stages of
development as drugs, Woo said. Their safety and effectiveness have not been
established. Likewise, existing gene therapy techniques tend to involve
ponderous laboratory procedures that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to
treat a single patient.

   Gene therapy, he emphasized, does hold great promise to revolutionize
medicine, producing new treatments for thousands of diseases. These range from
birth defects to conditions like heart disease and cancer that develop later in
life.

   The very simplest kind of gene therapy involves replacing a defective gene
with a normal copy, so that a patient's diseased cells function normally. But
the technology can be used in more complex ways. For instance, researchers are
testing gene therapy to kill unwanted cells, such as cancer cells or immune
system cells infected with the AIDS virus.

   Woo could not predict when today's efforts to develop gene therapy will lead
to a reasonably inexpensive injections or pills suitable for general medical
use. But his comments suggested a time frame of many years, even if scientists
quickly overcome daunting technical barriers.

   The hurdles range from a lack of basic knowledge about how cells function to
the lack of a suitable way of inserting large numbers of medicinal genes into
diseased cells.

NOTES:
Michael Woods is science editor of The Blade of Toledo, Ohio, and the Block News
Alliance. The Associated Press contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1995
