
                             401 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                        June 27, 2000 Tuesday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: MEDICAL FRONTIERS

BODY:

   The Name Game

   Some people exhibit an uncanny ability to place a name with a face, even a
year or more after a single meeting.

      That skill can be learned through a simple exercise, according to a study
by British psychologists published in the June issue of the Journal of
Experimental Psychology.
   In groups of up to 11 people, study participants showed improved memory for
names for up to 11 months if, after introducing themselves, they also repeated
the names of group members who had been introduced before. For instance, the
third person introduced would say his or her full name and the repeat the
names of the first two people who had been introduced.
    In order to keep the first person introduced from falling asleep during
the name game, that individual was expected to recall the full names of all
people who had been introduced.
   Researchers said the technique was superior to other recall exercises, such
as dividing groups into pairs and having each person reveal a pertinent detail
about his or her partner to the entire group.

   And Lame On Names
   For those who simply can't remember names at all, there may be a genetic
explanation.
   People suffering from so-called social amnesia may lack the hormone
oxytocin, according to a study announced Monday by researchers at Emory
University
   Mice engineered without the gene that produces oxytocin failed to recognize
mice with whom they had previously interacted. And mice without the hormone
continued to sniff at strangers long after their oxytocin-normal peers stopped
investigating newly introduced rodents.
   The researchers noted that the gene had no apparent effect on other aspects
of memory. The study was published in the July issue of Nature Genetics.
    Oxytocin is found in all mammals and has been implicated in a wide range
of social behaviors, such as pair-bonding, nursing, and mate-guarding.
    None of those more intimate relationships can develop without a sense of
recognition, said Jim Winslow, associate research professor of pyschobiology
at Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center at Emory.
    "Without this fundamental ability, even your mother would remain a
stranger," Winslow said.
   Researchers want to investigate whether a lack of the hormone might play a
role in autism or schizophrenia, which are characterized by degrees of social
isolation.

   HIV As Medicine
   The insidious tricks human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) uses to infect
cells and cause AIDS can be hijacked and used to treat diseases, maybe even
AIDS itself, researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
and the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif. believe.
   In Saturday's issue of Molecular Therapy, the scientists reported that they
had engineered fragments of HIV with a sort of "on-off" switch that can
safely deliver therapeutic genes into cells of rats.
   No toxic effects were seen in the animals.
   The promise of gene therapy has been hampered by difficulties in finding
ways to deliver new genetic information into cells. HIV and other members of
the lentivirus family attracted scientists as a way to deliver medicine
because of their ability to worm their way into large number of cells.
    HIV is a large virus that can carry plenty of genetic information. It also
can enter cells that are not currently dividing. These are advantages over
other means of inserting genetic information into cells, said Tal Kafri,
assistant professor of microbiology at UNC.
    Kafri and his colleagues designed the HIV so that it could be "turned
off" by the introduction of a simple antibiotic.

   Irish Health Food?
    French fries still may not qualify as a health food, but Cornell
University researchers say they can make an edible vaccine out of the common
potato.
    Scientists there say they have genetically engineered a potato that can
immunize people against a common form of viral diarrhea, according to Charles
Arntzen, leader of the team that developed the potato.
   The Cornell team is one of many working to genetically engineer foods to
make edible vaccines capable of fighting a variety of diseases.
   This form of immunization eliminates needles and the need to refrigerate
and purify vaccines. The ability to grow such foods locally would also cut
down shipping costs, which will make vaccines more affordable in developing
countries where they are sorely needed, supporters say.



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000


                             402 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2000 The Indianapolis Star
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Indianapolis Star (Indiana)

                             June 27, 2000 Tuesday
                               CITY FINAL Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Into the future

BODY:

   Chromosome: The self-replicating genetic structure of cells containing the
cellular DNA that bears the linear array of genes.

   Gene: The fundamental physical and functional unit of heredity. There are a
few thousand on each chromosome.

   Here are some of the changes that scientists predict will follow the
completion of the Human Genome Project:

   2010

   Genetic tests will predict risk for 25 diseases; ways to reduce risk will be
available for most of them.

   Gene therapy will be successful for treating hemophilia.

   Laws will protect genetic privacy and prevent discrimination.

   2020

   Cancer therapy will be precisely targeted at each form of the disease.

   Gene-based drugs will treat complex diseases like diabetes and hypertension.

   Biological treatments for mental illness will be available.

   2030

   Genes responsible for aging will be identified.

   Ways to prolong human life will be tested.

   People will be able to get printouts of their complete DNA sequence for
$1,000.

   2040

   Personalized, gene-based medicine will be standard for most diseases.

   The average human lifespan will be 90 years.

   Humans will be able to direct their own evolution by replacing selected
genes.

   All crops will be genetically engineered.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2009


                             403 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                      June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Part 1; Page 13; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: GENOME MILESTONE: CRACKING THE CODE;
 REVOLUTION IN HEALTH CARE PROMISED, BUT DECADES OF WORK LIE AHEAD;
 MEDICINE: SCIENTISTS PREDICT BETTER DIAGNOSES AND NEW TREATMENTS FOR NEARLY
EVERY HUMAN AILMENT.

BYLINE: AARON ZITNER, TIMES STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Now, the hard work begins.

   For all the celebration Monday over deciphering "The Book of Life"--the
genetic information that controls most of what goes on in the human
body--scientists know that they will need decades to fully comprehend the text.

   In the end, they promise a new era of medicine with new treatments for nearly
every medical ailment--treatments that come from tweaking the genes that tell
cells how to go about the work of daily life.

   Instead of poisoning a cancer patient with chemotherapy, doctors might simply
switch on the genes inside tumor cells that tell them it is time to die. Instead
of giving clotting factors to hemophiliacs, doctors might fix a patient's flawed
genes as though changing a broken gasket on a car. Dozens of other ailments
might be eased or cured as researchers invent drugs that tell certain genes to
work harder in the body, or to stop working altogether.

   "This genome sequence is really going to create revolutionary change in
everything associated with human health," said Richard Young, a gene researcher
and biology professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It will
range from a better understanding of basic biology to new diagnostic tests for
the major health problems to new cures for disease."

   But getting there will be a massive project. Today, scientists cannot even
agree on how many genes exist in humans, with guesses ranging from 38,000 to
140,000.

   The "Book of Life" contains the chemical sequence of DNA, the famed double
helix that resides in almost every human cell. Genes are small segments of DNA
that contain the recipe for specific proteins, which in turn handle the body's
basic chores, such as helping to metabolize food into energy or to signal to
another cell.

   Wayward genes can produce flawed proteins that cause disease. Accordingly,
many cures of the future will not seek to change the genes themselves but
instead try to intercept the bad proteins before they can do any damage.

   Devising those cures is the work of the next 20 or 30 years. But already, the
benefits of genetic research are finding their way into doctors' offices.

   Julie Louviere had beaten breast cancer, but three years ago, she found
herself hospitalized again with cancer of the bones and liver. As it turned out,
the Memphis mother of two was one of the 25% to 30% of breast cancer patients
with an overactive gene, called the HER2 gene, that was spurring her cancer on
by making too much of a growth protein.

   A new drug called Herceptin inhibits the extra protein. While not a panacea,
the drug can extend the life of many patients.

   "I've had two extra years of my life because of this," said Louviere, 36, a
former triathlete. She said that 18 months of Herceptin, combined with
chemotherapy, have shrunk or eliminated many of her liver tumors. "I'm living
proof that this can work," she said.

   There are bound to be more successes like Herceptin, which was developed
before scientists had much of the human genome in hand. Now researchers hope to
find new drugs merely by scanning the text of DNA.

   Amgen Inc. has already done just that. Researcher William Boyle trolled
electronically through Amgen's private database of mouse DNA and found an
interesting gene.

   To find out the gene's function, Amgen bred mice with extra copies of it. The
result was mice with very dense bones. And when Amgen bred mice that lacked the
gene, the result was thin, brittle bones.

   "With very little hands-on lab work, we were able to find a gene that leads
to higher bone density," Boyle said. Amgen found an analogous human gene and is
testing a drug on humans that is based on the gene protein. It could help
patients whose bones are deteriorating from age or cancer treatments.

   Studying genes is also showing scientists the limits of their traditional
tools--for example, the microscope. Specialists still label some kinds of
cancer--diffuse-cell cancer, cleft-cell cancer--according to what they see in a
microscope.

   But by examining genes, researchers have made a startling discovery: What
looks like one type of cancer under the microscope is actually a whole family of
diseases, each of which probably requires a different treatment strategy.

   Of the 25,000 Americans diagnosed each year with a common form of
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, for example, about 10,000 respond well to chemotherapy
and survive. The other 15,000 will suffer through the painful treatment, only to
die.

   Now researchers think they know why. Dr. Patrick Brown of Stanford University
and Dr. Lou Staudt of the National Cancer Institute have shown that the genes
active in some patients' tumors are different from those in other patients
diagnosed with the same form of lymphoma.

   By analyzing genes, doctors soon will be able to tell which patients with
this type of lymphoma are likely to benefit from chemotherapy and which should
receive some other treatment.

   Understanding human genes "frees us from the microscope," said Dr. Richard
Klausner, director of the National Cancer Institute. "It frees us to look at the
actual mechanism of disease and not just at the consequence of that mechanism,
the symptoms in the body or what a cell looks like, as we do now. We can look
right into the machinery."

   Studying which genes are at work in an illness could even help doctors
diagnose infectious diseases. "When you have an infection, or just feel
terrible, it's not even evident that it is an infection. It could just be bad
food," said Young, the MIT professor, who is also a researcher at the Whitehead
Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass.

   Recently, Young has shown that it may be possible to figure out what
infection is at work. He is studying macrophages, the free-floating cells that
are the first line of defense against disease-causing agents. The genes active
within macrophages vary, depending on what kind of intruder they encounter.

   Young says he has been able to distinguish a macrophage fighting tuberculosis
from one fighting HIV, influenza or any of seven other infections. Ultimately,
he said, a clear diagnosis will require doctors to study the genes in other
cells involved in the immune response, as well as those in macrophages.

   Many of the breakthroughs came before the text of human DNA was in hand. But
the pace of the work has accelerated over the last two years as the chain of 3.1
billion chemical units in DNA has become known. In recent weeks, scientists in
the publicly funded Human Genome Project have posted their work on the Internet
at the rate of 10,000 units a minute.

   How fast will the research go? Dr. Francis Collins, who leads the largely
public effort to sequence human DNA, predicted that within 10 years, doctors
will be able to tell patients whether they have genes that make them susceptible
to such diseases as high blood pressure, diabetes and heart disease. "That kind
of predictive information could be quite useful to you . . . because it would
allow you to practice individualized preventive medicine focusing on the things
that are most important for your own health," he said.

   In 15 to 20 years, he predicted, it will be common for doctors to prescribe
drugs targeted directly at genes and their protein products.


   Genome's Potential Uses

   Improved diagnosis of disease; earlier detection of genetic predisposition to
disease.


   *

   Gene therapy: repairing defective genes with healthy ones.


   *

   New drugs from identifiying genes, the proteins they produce and their role
in disease.


   *

   How the DNA directs the cell: 1. Instructions from the DNA code in the
chromosomes are "read" by RNA, or ribonucleic acid.  2. RNA leaves the nucleus
and links up with ribosomes, which are protein-making units within the cell.  3.
The RNA and ribo-somes interact to assemble amino acids based on the instruction
from the DNA. code.  4. Amino acids are folded into proteins that direct the
cell's function.


   *

   Sources: "From So Simple a Beginning"; Ultimate Visual Dictionary 2000; Human
Genome Project

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Genome's Potential Uses, AP / Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             404 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                      June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: WALL STREET, CALIFORNIA;
 HUMAN GENOME SWEEPSTAKES: A SAMPLING OF PLAYERS

BODY:


   Here's a look at some biotech companies involved in human genome research and
the development of drugs. Most of the companies are unprofitable and many have
generated scant sales, but the sector has stirred tremendous investor enthusiasm
because of the potential for scientific breakthroughs. Even with their recent
rebounds, many of the stocks have come way down from their spring peaks. Which
stocks do some of the sector analysts like? Michael Murphy, editor of the
California Technology Stock Letter, recommends two of the best-known companies,
Human Genome Sciences and Celera Genomics Group. "They both have so much
intellectual property and so many big ideas," he said. "They're not cheap, but
investors can tuck them away for three or four years and do quite well." Jim
McCamant, editor of the Medical Technology Stock Letter, said Isis
Pharmaceuticals and Chiron, two stocks that have been "pretty much ignored" amid
the hoopla, could be among the juicier investments. "I'd wait for price dips on
a lot of the other genomics stocks," he said. Genome breakthrough stories on A1
and A12.

   Company: Celera Genomics

   Ticker symbol: CRA

   Headquarters: Norwalk, Conn.

   52-week high: $ 276.00

   52-week low: $ 7.06

   Monday close and change: $ 114.00, -$ 13.00

   Market cap (in millions): $ 6,407


   *

   The genomics unit of PE Corp. says it has completed a draft map of the human
genetic code, the industry's biggest breakthrough yet. Expected to lose $ 1.69 a
share in its fiscal year ending this month.

   Company: Isis Pharm.

   Ticker symbol: ISIP

   Headquarters: Carlsbad, Calif.

   52-week high: 39.00

   52-week low: 3.88

   Monday close and change: 13.25, +38 cents

   Market cap (in millions): 471


   *

   Seeking to develop treatments for AIDS, cancer, asthma and other illnesses
using anti-sense technology. Because anti-sense stops protein replication, the
genetic map is seen as a boon to companies such as Isis that can now
theoretically home in on their targets.

   Company: Chiron

   Ticker symbol: CHIR

   Headquarters: Emeryville, Calif.

   52-week high: 71.03

   52-week low: 20.00

   Monday close and change: 47.94, +3.88

   Market cap (in millions): 8,613


   *

   Seeking to develop products to treat AIDS, cancer, heart disease and
hepatitis using gene therapy. One of the sector's few companies already in the
black, Chiron is expected to make 78 cents a share in calendar 2000.

   Company: Axys Pharm.

   Ticker symbol: AXPH

   Headquarters: So. San Francisco

   52-week high: 20.25

   52-week low: 2.69

   Monday close and change: 5.50, +13 cents

   Market cap (in millions): 194


   *

   Specializes in designing drugs to target a specific protein, such as a gene
involved in Alzheimer's. Expected to lose 89 cents a share in 2000.

   Company: Lexicon Genetics

   Ticker symbol: LEXG

   Headquarters: The Woodlands, Texas

   52-week high: 27.13

   52-week low: 8.00

   Monday close and change: 25.63, +1.38

   Market cap (in millions): 1,218


   *

   Traps genes to see how they mutate. This "functional genomics" company has a
major deal with sector heavyweight Millennium Pharmaceuticals and will benefit
from the expected surge in gene-based research, Murphy said.

   Company: Hyseq

   Ticker symbol: HYSQ

   Headquarters: Sunnyvale, Calif.

   52-week high: 139.50

   52-week low: 2.75

   Monday close and change: 38.75, +3.94

   Market cap (in millions): 514


   *

   Identifies therapeutic targets for its partners using anti-sense
technologies, like competitor Isis. Expected to lose $ 1.11 a share in 2000.

   Company: Incyte Genomics

   Ticker symbol: INCY

   Headquarters: Palo Alto

   52-week high: 289.06

   52-week low: 16.44

   Monday close and change: 89.31, -2.63

   Market cap (in millions): 2,840


   *

   Markets genomics-related databases, software and services to the leading drug
companies. One of the industry's original companies, Incyte has sequenced
numerous genes.

   Company: Visible Genetics

   Ticker symbol: VGIN

   Headquarters: Toronto

   52-week high: 119.13

   52-week low: 8.88

   Monday close and change: 39.94, -5.56

   Market cap (in millions): 590


   *

   Makes automated DNA sequencing systems and diagnostic kits for analysis of
genes related to disease. Competes with PE Biosystems (a unit of PE Corp., like
Celera).

   Company: Human Genome

   Ticker symbol: HGSI

   Headquarters: Rockville, Md.

   52-week high: 232.75

   52-week low: 19.38

   Monday close and change: 143.38, -2.00

   Market cap (in millions): 602


   *

   Seeking to bring to market drugs based on copying helpful proteins produced
by human genes. Has 400 to 500 patents on genes, proteins and their medical
relevance, according to Murphy. "When they came public in 1993 , I said it was
like buying Coca-Cola in 1907-it was unstoppable, and it's still unstoppable,"
he said.

   Company: Millennium Pharm.

   Ticker symbol: MLNM

   Headquarters: Cambridge, Mass.

   52-week high: 158.00

   52-week low: 16.38

   Monday close and change: 121.50, +1.94

   Market cap (in millions): 11,116


   *

   Gene research company working on treatments for heart disease, leukemia and
other illnesses. Has assembled an array of genomics and drug development
technologies, putting it in position to discover its own genes and rapidly
develop drugs to fit those genes, according to Murphy. "They look at a specific
disease, such as obesity. So they have fewer genes than Human Genome, but
everything they have is relevant." *

   Sources: Times research, Bloomberg News

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-TABLE: Human Genome Sweepstakes: A Sampling of Players, Los
Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             405 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: READING THE BOOK OF LIFE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD;
Genomic Chief Has High Hopes, and Great Fears, for Genetic Testing

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

BODY:

   Within 10 years, tests for genetic predisposition to 25 major causes of
illness and death in this country will be widely available if predictions of Dr.
Francis S. Collins, head of the Human Genome Project of the National Institutes
of Health, prove correct.

   But most people will shun genetic testing unless effective therapies exist to
prevent potential hazards from the particular disorders, Dr. Collins said in an
interview.

    The project will map each of the estimated 50,000 human genes and spell out
each letter in the book of the DNA, the thread of life, in the genes. But as
scientists race to write the final chapter, they have little comprehension of
the book's instructions and the changes they might bring to society.

   Nevertheless, in a recent lecture after receiving a prestigious award from
the Association of American Physicians, Dr. Collins made predictions about the
project's impact on medical practice over the next 40 years, answering the
question he said he was asked most: where will all the research lead? In doing
so, he plunged into territory where few other scientific leaders tread.

   Using genetics to tailor and improve health care will be the genome project's
main legacy if effective laws are passed to protect privacy, prevent use of
genetic information to deprive an individual of health insurance or a job, and
prohibit other forms of genetic discrimination, Dr. Collins said.

   Also, he urged closer scrutiny to determine when genetic tests are ready for
wide use, given that commercial pressures may persuade patients and doctors to
use tests before their medical value is established.

   Even if only a few predictions prove true, major political and economic
problems would follow. For example, the new genetic information's power to
change medical practice could aggravate international tensions by widening
inequalities in access to health care within countries and between those in the
developed and third worlds.

   Among Dr. Collins's predictions:

   BY 2010, the genome will help identify people at highest risk of particular
diseases, so monitoring efforts can focus on them.

   A disorder of iron metabolism is likely to become the model for such
screening. The condition, hemachromatosis, affects 1 in 300 people and in the
early stages often goes undetected, which is unfortunate because simple
treatments, like periodic blood-letting to remove excess iron, can prevent
complications like cirrhosis. By 2010, studies will have found the most
effective combination of biochemical and genetic tests to detect people who are
susceptible.
 In cancer, genetic tests will identify those at highest risk for lung cancer
from smoking. Genetic tests for colon cancer will narrow colonoscopy screening
to people who need it most. A genetic test for prostate cancer could lead to
more precise use of the prostate specific antigen, or P.S.A., test by
identifying those men in whom the cancer is most likely to progress fastest.
Additional genetic tests would guide treatment of breast and ovarian cancer.

   Three or four genetic tests will help predict an individual's risk for
developing coronary artery disease, thus helping to determine when to start
drugs and other measures to reduce need for bypass operations.

   Tests predicting a high risk for diabetes should help encourage susceptible
individuals to exercise and control their weight. Those at higher risk might
start taking drugs before they develop symptoms.

   Scientists have a partial insight into the genetics of osteoporosis. With
further research, Dr. Collins said, "you could imagine combining that kind of a
test with a decision to start calcium and vitamin D therapy early on to try to
prevent bone loss before it is clinically apparent, although we don't yet have
evidence" that such therapy will benefit individuals at high risk for
osteoporosis.

   Tests to detect many potential problems will be performed before birth, or
even as part of in vitro fertilization before an embryo is implanted in the
womb. But these tests will raise troubling issues: the technology is prone to
error, and at least initially, the tests will be hard to get and expensive.

   As the accuracy improves and costs drop, many will demand the tests to reduce
the chances of bearing a child who is at risk of developing conditions that are
not actually debilitating, but just "undesirable." If so, there will be debates
about the morality.

   The explosion of information about the new genetics will create a huge
problem in health education. "Most physicians in practice have had not a single
hour of education in genetics and are going to be severely challenged to pick up
this new technology and run with it," Dr. Collins said.

   More than 120 medical and nursing societies representing virtually every
specialty have formed a coalition to develop an educational program combining
the Internet and traditional courses. "They all recognize this train is coming,"
Dr. Collins said.

   BY 2020, doctors will rely on individual genetic variations in prescribing
new and old drugs and choosing the dose. Pharmaceutical companies will take a
second look at some drugs that were never marketed, or were taken off the
market, because some people who took them suffered adverse reactions. It will
take many years to develop such drugs and tests.

   Cancer doctors will use drugs that precisely target a tumor's molecular
fingerprint. One such gene-based designer drug, Herceptin, is already marketed
for treating advanced breast cancer.

   The genome project holds promise for the mental health field. "One of the
greatest benefits of genomic medicine will be to unravel some biological
contributions to major mental illnesses like schizophrenia and manic depressive
disease" and produce new therapies, Dr. Collins said.

   BY 2030, death will still be inevitable, but clinical trials relying on
information from the genome will be under way to extend human life spans. Human
genes like those involved in the aging of flies, worms and mice will be
identified and fully catalogued.

   Scientists working with the genome will develop full computer models of human
cells and analyze all human genes, proteins and their interactions. As a result,
many experiments now done with laboratory animals or even human subjects will be
completed entirely on computers. Dr. Collins said that if he were now a graduate
student, he would join this field.

   Groups opposed to technology will be alarmed by these developments and will
act to halt them. "We have to be prepared for that," Dr. Collins said.

   BY 2040, gene therapy and gene-based drugs will be available for most
diseases. Using information derived from the genes for aging, the average human
life span will reach 90 in the year when Dr. Collins would reach that age.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             406 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2681 words

HEADLINE: READING THE BOOK OF LIFE;
Now, the Hard Part: Putting the Genome to Work

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

BODY:

   The human genome is in hand. The set of instructions embodied in the ancient
chemical deoxyribonucleic acid, at least 3.5 billion years in the making, has
been made fully visible for the first time.

   The manual with the specifications for the human species comes in 24 tapes of
DNA, one for every chromosome, each carrying one long, punctuation-free sentence
in evolution's four-letter programming code. On first inspection, these ancient
texts are as incomprehensible as a message from another planet.

    And the genome, as any message from another world, will surely change this
one when its full meaning is understood.

   Although exploration of the genome has already begun, it will be decades
before every detail is thoroughly known.

   The first practical impacts will be in health. The genome is widely expected
to revolutionize the practice of medicine. Its sequence is already being mined
for the levers of the body's own communications system, including the signals
that direct cells to repair damaged tissue and fight off invaders. The use of
these signals as drugs may develop into a new mode of therapy, one that Dr.
William Haseltine, president of Human Genome Sciences, has termed "regenerative
medicine."

   Another predicted advance, though not so immediate, is that of personalized
medicine -- treatment and preventive programs that are tailored to the
individual based on a genomic analysis.

   But the genome's writ reaches beyond medicine and will in time redefine
knowledge of ourselves, our history, our innate capacities and our relationship
to the rest of creation. The conditions of human existence, the reach of human
abilities, the purpose of life -- at least in a biological sense -- have
boundaries that are engraved in the genome's gnomic text.

   In defining the human species, the genome assumes distinctive flourishes in
the major ethnic groups that developed as humans spread throughout the world,
and specifies the genetic endowment of individuals. All individuals, save
identical twins, are unique because their genomes are one of a kind. These
underlying differences, for good and for ill, can now be spelled out for the
first time.

   In making the announcement yesterday at the White House, President Clinton
emphasized the similarities, rather than the differences, inherent in the
results.

   "In genetic terms all human beings, regardless of race, are more than 99.9
percent the same," Mr. Clinton said. "Modern science has confirmed what we first
learned from ancient faiths. The most important fact of life on this earth is
our common humanity."

   For the many who are fascinated by their origins and family history, the
human genome will provide answers. Already a company that is called Oxford
Ancestors (www.oxfordancestors.com) offers to tell people which of 30 founding
human lineages they belong to, based on their DNA.

   Less beneficial may be the power of genetic differences, even entirely
inconsequential ones, to divide or be cited as the justification for division
and discord. "Most geneticists wax euphoric that so many of our genes are in
common, that the genome map will show us to be a happy band of brothers and
sisters," says Dr. Arthur L. Caplan, an ethicist at the University of
Pennsylvania. "I doubt it."

   Dr. Caplan fears people "will use this information to bolster racial and
ethnic prejudices and other exclusivity groupings they believe in."

   The genome, once interpreted, is knowledge that will provide the means to
change the human genetic inheritance, usurping control of human biological
destiny from the blind forces of natural selection and random change that have
shaped it up till now. In principle, it may be possible to correct
disease-causing genes, even design a genome optimized for health and longevity.
Whether to try to improve the human genetic allotment, at the risk of changing
human nature as well, will not be a straightforward choice.

   "There is no doubt that knowledge about different alleles will create the
temptation to optimize one's offspring in terms of their genetic endowment,"
said Dr. Robert Weinberg of the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass.,
referring to the different forms one gene may take in different people.

   Discovery of the genes that may underlie intelligence, for example, would
open "a whole Pandora's box of possibilities, where someone like myself is no
more qualified than someone with a minimal understanding of genetics to make
ethical and moral choices," Dr. Weinberg said.

   "This has to be a societywide debate," he said, "not one involving just
geneticists or bioethicists."

   Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who shared the announcement with Mr.
Clinton, agreed. "We, all of us, share a duty to ensure that the common property
of the human genome is used freely for the common good," he said. "To ensure
that the powerful information now at our disposal is used to transform medicine,
not abused, to make man his own creator or invade individual privacy."

Annotating the Genome

   Biologists face years of preparatory work in understanding the various levels
of the genome's operation.

   Possession of the genome will transform biology from a cottage industry,
where one gene and protein were studied at a time, to a far different scale of
operation in which all of a cell's genes, or all its proteins, are examined in
parallel.

   To generate and analyze the genomic information, a slew of new disciplines is
emerging.

   There is bioinformatics, or computational genomics, the art of writing
computer programs to "annotate" the genome, which includes finding and analyzing
all its genes. There is proteomics, a set of methods for examining all of a
cell's many different proteins en masse, instead of one by one.  There is
pharmacogenomics, the matching of drugs to individuals on the basis of genetics.

   With the human genome sequence now in hand, the first task is annotation, a
word borrowed from computer programmers' practice of writing explanations
alongside the major routines in a piece of software. The genome is biological
programming, but evolution has neglected to provide even the punctuation to show
where genes stop and start, let alone any helpful notes as to what each gene is
meant to do.

   The lack of punctuation makes the genes very hard to identify. Each gene is
broken into several separate parts, known as exons, and the exons are strung out
along the ribbon of DNA so sparsely that they account for only 3 percent of the
genome's three billion letters.

   Human cells have no trouble spotting the genes and regularly make copies of
active genes. Biologists have learned how to capture these copies and analyze
fragments of them. By comparing the sequence of DNA letters in each part of the
genome with a library of these fragments, annotators can pick out many of the
exons.

   Once a gene has been identified, annotators can often guess what it does by
comparing its sequence of DNA letters with that of genes whose function is
already known. The genomes of many bacteria and two animals (the roundworm and
the fruit fly) have already been sequenced and annotated, and the roles of many
of their genes have been identified. Because of the unity of evolution, the
sequence of every human gene is recognizably similar to the equivalent gene in
other organisms.

   Even more useful for interpreting the human genome will be that of the mouse,
whose genome is now being deciphered by a public consortium of academic centers
and the Celera Genomics Group of Rockville, Md., the two groups that have been
working to decode the human genome.

   Indeed the best way of finding the human genes may be simply to lay the human
and mouse genomes side by side and look for places where the sequence of DNA
letters is similar. Biologists expect that the DNA sequence in the genes will
have stayed much the same in the 100 million years since the two species shared
a common ancestor but that the rest of the DNA will be different.

   In the organisms whose genomes have been decoded so far, about a third of the
genes are novel, with no matches in the databases. The mouse will help assign
roles to novel human genes too because its counterpart genes can be deleted to
create strains of "knock-out" mice. Knock-out mice often reveal by their defects
the natural functions of the gene they lack.

Proteins and Cells

   The role of most genes is to make specific proteins, which are the working
parts of human cells. Depending on the nature of its string of subunits, which
are specified by its gene, a protein can serve a structural purpose, like a
collagen fiber, or catalyze some chemical reaction important to the cell's
metabolism.

   Although many proteins of interest have been studied in great detail, the
annotated genome will provide for the first time a comprehensive parts list of
all the proteins the body makes.

   Defects in these working proteins, caused by mutations in their parent genes,
are responsible for much of the burden of human disease.

   Understanding the role of every human protein -- proteomics -- will be one of
the goals of the post-genome era. The sequence of a protein, meaning the
composition of its subunits, can be predicted from the sequence of DNA letters
in its parent gene, but many proteins are further processed by the cell in ways
that cannot yet be predicted.

   Another initiative made possible by the genome is the complete understanding
of the human cell. Thousands of genes may be active in a cell at any time, and
the cast of players changes when the cell performs different roles, like
responding to a hormone or slipping into cancerous activity.

   Until recently it has been out of the question to study so many genes
simultaneously. But new instruments known as gene expression chips allow
researchers to track which of a cell's genes are active.

   Gene expression chips are made in different ways but all require prior
knowledge of the genes' DNA sequence, now available from the genome.

   The chips may also help elucidate the differences between the 220 known cell
types of the human body.

   Although every cell possesses its own full copy of the genome, each type is
thought to use only its own special subset of the genes, the rest being
permanently switched off.

   The body is a kind of repressive socialist state where every cell is equal
but each must respond precisely to collective authority or receive orders to
self-destruct. The genome is the authority's archive, containing the plans for
each type of cell, the master program for generating a 10-trillion-celled
organism from a single egg, and the life cycle instructions that guide it from
birth to adolescence and maturity.

Tracking Human Variations

   In parallel with finding all the genes in the genome, biologists will also
try to track the major variants in DNA sequence found in the human population.
Any two individuals differ on average in one nucleotide, or DNA unit, in every
thousand.

   These one-unit changes are known as single nucleotide polymorphisms, or
SNP's, and are a principal source of human genetic variation.

   Analysis of SNP's, or "snips," should help track down the variant genes that
contribute to disease. Many common diseases, like diabetes and heart disease,
are thought to be caused by several variant genes acting together. Because each
variant makes only a small contribution to the disease, these genes have
hitherto been particularly hard to identify.

   "I truly feel this is going to revolutionize medicine because we are going to
understand not only what causes disease but what prevents disease," said Dr.
Stephen T. Warren, a medical geneticist at Emory University in Atlanta and
editor of The American Journal of Human Genetics. "We will understand the
mechanism of disease sufficiently to do rational therapy. We will be able to
predict who is at higher risk for particular disease and provide advice to
individuals as to how best to maintain their health."

Ethical Implications

   The ability to diagnose vulnerability to disease on a genomewide basis will
multiply the quandaries already raised by the present level of genetic testing.
Probably almost everyone possesses many gene variants associated with adverse
health effects. This information could be used to the individual's detriment, if
not kept confidential, and could be psychologically devastating if diagnosis
runs ahead of treatment and the physician has no therapy to offer.

   Dr. Eric S. Lander of the Whitehead Institute has contemplated a "snip chip"
that would diagnose all the major SNP's, or gene variants, found in the
population. Such information would hold considerable potential for forecasting
an individual's medical fate.

   These SNP chips are unlikely to be developed soon and their predictive powers
should not be feared, said Dr. James Watson, president of the Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory on Long Island.

   "I think young people are the ones who are afraid to see the future," Dr.
Watson said. "Old people see the future and would like to reverse it."

   Single nucleotide polymorphisms and other genetic elements are useful in a
quite different dimension, that of tracking the movements of the earliest human
populations within Africa and as they spread throughout the rest of the world.
By selecting SNP's that arose in the course of this expansion, population
geneticists can track genetic differences that are specific to particular
continents and major ethnic groups.

   Most of these SNP's lie in regions of the genome that do not code for genes
and have no effect on the body.

   Population geneticists know that all people are extremely similar to one
another in genetic terms and believe that the similarities overwhelm the very
minor differences that they are studying.

   But others fear the differences may not be used so benignly. Dr. Caplan, the
University of Pennsylvania ethicist, believes geneticists underestimate both the
appetite for this genetic information and its potential for misuse.

   "People don't realize how important that drive is to understand ourselves,"
he said. "In most parts of the world we define ourselves by blood and kin, and
those are just surrogates for genes."

   But once the genetic kits have been developed to determine who is of American
Indian ancestry, say, "It would not surprise me to see eligibility for casino
gambling profits requiring a genetic test," Dr. Caplan said. "We could find
people asking who is the 'real' Jew or black person or Serbian."

   He also foresees SNP's being used in conjunction with brain scans to uncover
genetic markers for personality traits like antisocial behavior.

   "One of the big surprises for the man in the street will be how much of our
behavior is hard-wired," Dr. Caplan said. "And the people involved in the
mapping are medical people who don't spend much time thinking about the
historical and social implications. So there will be lots of bombshells, some of
them sadly revisiting some of the bigotry that has cycled around genetics for
many years."

The New Temptation

   Like all powerful knowledge, the genome can be put to good and bad ends
depending on how carefully the knowledge is used. The more harmful genetic
variants are discovered, the more compelling the logic may seem of fixing the
bugs in the genomic programming directly instead of treating the symptoms in
each generation, a procedure called germ-line gene therapy.

   The danger is hardly pressing: gene therapy applied to treat ordinary body
cells has so far been a failure. But in time the technique will doubtless work,
and the knowledge may be developed to reprogram the human genome, perhaps to
strip it of many known disease-causing and life-shortening SNP's.

   Control of the genome would then fall to some extent under human direction,
bringing benefits for health and longevity, but raising a risk of changing human
nature in unintended and unwarranted ways.

   The genome, the long-sought manual of evolution's biological programming,
comes with no warning labels as to careful reading and cautious use. Maybe
neither is necessary.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John E. Sulston, left, director of the Sanger Center, decoded
the roundworm. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

Drawings (Sarah Slobin and Steve Duenes/The New York Times)(pg. F1)

Chart: "A New Era Begins"
Scientists have nearly finished sequencing the entire human genome, but putting
all the bits of DNA in order is only the first phase in the effort to compile a
complete operating manual of the human machine. A multifaceted analysis of the
genome, already under way, is the next step.

SEQUENCING THE GENOME -- DETERMINE THE ORDER OF NEARLY 3 BILLION UNITS OF DNA;
LOCATE GENES AND DETERMINE THEIR; FUNCTION (FUTURE GOAL)

THE TOOLS OF ANALYSIS
With mountains of genetic data amassed, various computational tools have been
developed to help scientists sort through it.

HYPOTHETICAL SEARCH THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED:
A gene sequence or partial sequence can be entered into a search form.

Most of these software applications, or bioinformatic agents, allow scientists
to search public or private databases.

AMONG THE INFORMATION RETURNED:

The identical sequence in its genomic context.
Where the gene is located.
Other instances of the gene's sequence.
Instances of the gene's sequence on other organisms like the mouse or fly.
The structure of the protein the gene instructs a cell to make.
Patents held on the gene (or protein).
Scientific literature regarding the gene or protein.

THE TYPES OF ANALYSIS

Identifying Genes
It is unknown how many genes there are on the human genome, and many genes whose
sequences have been determined have functions that are unknown. Several
approaches to discovering gene location and function are in use, including those
that utilize the cell's basic machinery.

GENE LOCATIONS -- Messenger RNA, transcribed from DNA, carries instructions for
making proteins. It can be isolated, decoded and then matched with the identical
sequence on the genome.

Comparing Organisms
Decoding the genomes of other organisms provides a model against which the human
genome can be tested. Genes that go awry in a human cancer cell, for instance,
closely match the genes that control cell division in baker's yeast. Since the
machinery that controls these processes is highly similiar in both organisms,
scientists study the model organism to learn more about humans.

ANIMAL COMPARISON -- Genes can be studied by finding identical sequences in
other organisms and observing and analyzing their function within that organism.


Mapping Proteins
Genes contain instructions for the production of proteins.These proteins become
the structural components of cells and the enzymes that cause chemical changes
in the body. The ability to isolate or produce a protein for further study
allows scientists to create a catalog of how the cell behaves.

PROTEIN MAPS -- Proteins interact with other proteins to do their work in the
cell. Scientists can determine the function of a protein by observing whether or
not it binds with a protein whose function is known.

Comparing Humans
Tiny variations in the genetic code are what make us unique. Changes of one
chemical unit in a gene's sequence, called single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNP's), can influence an individual's risk for disease. Comparing variations
will help identify defective genes and may lead to better diagnosis and
treatments.

SNP's
Scientists have created special chips coated with DNA strands that detect
genetic variations or, SNP's, when an individual's DNA is tested against them.
(Source: Dr. Eric Lander, Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research,
M.I.T.)(pg. F1)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             407 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                             June 27, 2000, Tuesday

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: BEWARE, LEST THIS BE HOW WE'LL ELIMINATE THE KINDS OF PEOPLE SOCIETY
DEEMS UNFIT

BYLINE: Rod Dreher

BODY:

   THE atomic bomb of the 21st century has just been detonated - for better and,
most likely, for worse.

   The possibilities for using the human genome map knowledge for good and evil
are mind-boggling.

   The good? New medicines and treatments for diseases.

   The evil? Discrimination against the genetically unfavored, and, ultimately,
elimination of those considered unfit to live.

   The ramifications are not unthinkable - see Nazi Germany - but apparently
undiscussable by the clueless general public.

   "This is so far removed from what most people know that it's hard for them to
put it into context," says Lois Lander of the Washington-based Genetic Alliance.

   Cara Egan doesn't have the luxury of ignorance. She's a dwarf.

   In 1994, scientists identified the dwarfism gene. Now she's afraid people
like her will be eliminated in the future, whether through abortion as a result
of prenatal testing, or through gene therapy in the womb.

   "People are going to say to [dwarf] kids, aeWhat are you doing here? This
could have been prevented,'" Egan says.

   And that's going to be even more true if dwarfism can someday be averted in
the womb.

   Egan is the spokeswoman for the dwarf organization Little People of America.
She sees her group's job as educating Americans that dwarves are productive
members of society.

   "My life is not defined by my dwarfism," she tells me, then rattles off a
list of contributions individual dwarves have made to the common good.

   Has it really come to this: A human being forced to argue that her kind has
the right to exist because they can be useful to the rest of us?

   What is going to happen when a simple blood test can reveal genetic
predisposition for any number of physical and psychological conditions?

   Tom Sena, a founder of the Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians, has
written that if a gay gene is discovered, even well-meaning, liberal parents
might choose to abort their gay child as a mercy killing.

   "As one woman I know put it: aeWhy should I bring a child into the world whom
I know is going to have to deal with all this bigotry and hate?'" Sena wrote.
"In other words, aeTrust me, dear, you're better off dead.'"

   Think it can't happen here? Before the Nazis were put out of business,
forward-thinking people everywhere in the West were in favor of reducing human
suffering through genetic engineering.

   Swedish socialists, American democrats and German fascists had different
reasons for supporting eugenics projects, but they shared the same philosophical
goal: that society could be made stronger and better by eliminating the unfit -
which tended to be the poorer, the darker and the weaker members of society.

   As Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger put it in 1921, "Possibly
drastic and Spartan methods may be forced upon society if it continues
complacently to encourage the chance and chaotic breeding that has resulted from
our stupidly cruel sentimentalism."

   Have we really changed all that much since then? Not at all, says University
of Chicago bioethicist Dr. Leon Kass, who believes this sort of thing is
practiced today under the rubrics of "freedom" and "choice."

   "Abortion for negative eugenics reasons has quietly been made a staple of
ordinary medical practice," he says. "That's what prenatal screening is."

   Kass says the availability of a wide range of genetic screening "is going to
greatly increase the pressure to get rid of those who are imperfect and for whom
care is very costly.

   "And down the road, we're going to face aeimprovements' on what it means to
be a human being at a time when the notion of what's healthy or normal has been
eroded from all sides."

   There's no stopping science, perhaps. But we'd all sleep a lot better if
mankind's moral advancement kept pace with its scientific progress.

   e-mail: dreher@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             408 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                          Copyright 2000 The Oregonian
                                 The Oregonian

                     June 27, 2000 Tuesday SUNRISE EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: MORE THAN THE SUM OF OUR PARTS ;
MAPPING THE HUMAN GENOME IS IMPORTANT SCIENTIFIC ACHIEVEMENT, BUT THE MEANINGOF
IT ALL STILL ELUDES

BODY:

   Deciphering the human genome -- the human chemical sequence contained in our
DNA -- is a heady accomplishment for scientists.

   But as the excitment settles down, the clearer it becomes that practical
applications of this discovery are many years in the future.

   What science has found is less than a blueprint for the stuff of life; it's
more like a list of building materials. To be more precise, that's more than 3
billion chemical units on each set of the 23 twin DNA human chromosomes that
make up the human organism.

   It's still a great story with lots of promise. And it's a good thing that
there's time before any practical application ensues because there is plenty to
mull over -- especially the ethical and philosophical implications.

   Understanding the human genetic code promises to lead to cures for many
illnesses by treating ailments at the cellular source with medicines tailored to
individual patients. Or, even better, it could lead to gene therapy that helps
the body to heal itself.

   "It is a huge step, to map the human genome," said Dr. Susan Tolle, director
of the Oregon Health Sciences University Center for Ethics in Health Care.

   But gene research has its potential dark side. Would cultures that favor boys
alter genes to produce more boy babies? Would insurance companies or employers
discriminate against people based on testing that shows who has a predisposition
to certain diseases?

   And whose genes are we talking about anyway? As Tolle points out, the
question of one person's genetic information isn't just an individual inquiry:
It includes genetic information about one's parents and grandparents, brothers
and sisters.

   Equally challenging is how society will manage the profit potential in
genetic research. Yesterday's announcement was a joint presentation by a
consortium of universities led by the National Institutes of Health's Human
Genome Project and by the Celera Genomics Corp., a genetic research firm.

   Celera challenged the NIH project, which had expected to complete its program
in 2005, to a race, vowing Celera's research would bring in results five years
earlier.

   Fortunately, Celera and the rest of the scientific community recognize that
this stage in mapping the human genome "represents more of a starting line than
a finish line."

   That's a good place to be. Figuring out life's mysteries shouldn't be too
easy.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000


                             409 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                       June 27, 2000 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: QUESTIONS, ANSWERS ON DNA MAPPING

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

BODY:

   Mapping the human genetic blueprint is a fundamental milestone of
biotechnology, accomplished in less than a decade when many experts had expected
it would take generations.

   Eventually, this understanding of our molecular selves promises longer,
healthier lives, perhaps entirely free of gene-caused diseases. But for now,
while the gene map is refined and finalized, the much harder task of figuring
out what all those genes do and what we can do with them is just beginning.
Here's some basic information.

   Q: What is a gene?

   A: Even scientists disagree on exactly how to define a gene. Generally, it's
a sequence of DNA that holds the instructions for making a single protein.
Proteins do the work of the body, building structures and carrying out
biochemical reactions.

   Q: How many genes are there?

   A: Because what scientists announced yesterday is basically a string of 3
billion letters, not even scientists know how many genes there are. Estimates
range from 34,000 to 140,000.

   Q: Do genes determine everything about us?

   A: Genes and environment work together to shape who we are. Because
environment includes everything we come into contact with from conception
through death, it plays an awesome and extremely complex role.

   Q: How was the work done?

   A: The Human Genome Project used a slow but accurate method, while Celera,
whose corporate motto is "Speed Matters," used a method called "shotgun
sequencing" that is much quicker but leaves some gaps in knowledge. Both groups
cut the long strand of human DNA into pieces, then used biological tools and
computers to "read" the fragments' millions of component chemicals and
reassemble the strand in the proper order. The methods differ in the number of
steps used, and the size of the chunks the DNA strand is divided into. Much of
the work is done by computers working around the clock, and Celera spent
hundreds of millions of dollars to buy the best and the most equipment. It
competed with America Online and the National Security Agency for the most
sophisticated computers.

   Q: What happens now?

   A: With the completed map, scientists know roughly where to find the genes.
But only about 3 percent of the DNA landscape that's been mapped actually
contains genes that issue chemical codes to construct every bit of the human
body and tell it how to act. Connecting specific genes to the proteins they make
and what they do in the body could take the better part of a century to nail
down, researchers say.

   Q: Will the gene map lead to a cure for cancer and other serious diseases?

   A: Virtually every disease has some genetic cause. Some are simple
misspellings that may be compensated for by drugs or corrected with gene
therapy, a technology that is still in its infancy. Other diseases, such as
schizophrenia, are processes set off by multiple unknown genes that interact in
complex ways. As scientists gain more knowledge about genes, they will develop
new treatments based on that knowledge. The outlook is especially good over the
next few decades for some cancers and Alzheimers disease.

   Q: What about gene therapy?

   A: Researchers have had pretty limited success so far. Part of the problem
has been that diseases probably aren't as simple as one gene defect. So slipping
in a correction may not be sufficient. And even if it is, the techniques for
inserting those genes into the right sets of cells remain in their infancy.

   Q: Will anybody be able to use my genetic information against me?

   A: There are great concerns that genetic technology will be used to
discriminate against people in employment, insurance coverage and other areas.
People also worry that the discovery of a "violence gene" could be used to deny
the civil rights of individuals based on their perceived potential to commit
crimes in the future. Although President Clinton recently signed an executive
order forbidding federal employment discrimination on the basis of genetics and
Congress is considering legislation, many of these issues remain unresolved.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000


                             410 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 27, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST PREDICTS HOW GENOME PROJECT WILL AFFECT HEALTH IN THE
FUTURE;
TESTS FOR PREDISPOSITION TO MANY DISEASES WILL BE AVAILABLE;
ETHICAL QUESTIONS WILL ARISE

BYLINE: New York Times News Service

BODY:


   Within 10 years, tests for genetic predisposition to 25 major causes of
illness and death in this country will be widely available. So predicts Dr.
Francis S. Collins, head of the Human Genome Project of the National Institutes
of Health.

   But most people will shun genetic testing unless effective therapies exist to
prevent potential hazards from the particular disorders, Collins said.

   In a recent lecture after receiving a prestigious award from the Association
of American Physicians, Collins made predictions about the project's impact on
medical practice over the next 40 years, answering the question he said he was
asked most: where will all the research lead?

Among Collins' predictions:

   By 2010, the genome will help identify people at highest risk of particular
diseases, so monitoring efforts can focus on them.

   A disorder of iron metabolism is likely to become the model for such
screening. The condition, hemachromatosis, affects one in 300 people. In the
early stages - when simple treatments, like periodic blood-letting to remove
excess iron, can prevent complications like cirrhosis - the disorder often goes
undetected. By 2010, studies will have found the most effective combination of
biochemical and genetic tests to detect people who are susceptible.

   In cancer, genetic tests will identify those at highest risk for lung cancer
from smoking. Genetic tests for colon cancer will narrow colonoscopy screening
to people who need it most. A genetic test for prostate cancer could lead to
more precise use of the prostate specific antigen, or PSA, test by identifying
those men in whom the cancer is most likely to progress fastest. Additional
genetic tests would guide treatment of breast and ovarian cancer.

   Three or four genetic tests will help predict an individual's risk for
developing coronary artery disease, thus helping to determine when to start
drugs and other measures to reduce need for bypass operations.

   Tests predicting a high risk for diabetes should help encourage susceptible
individuals to exercise and control their weight. Those at higher risk might
start taking drugs before they develop symptoms.

   Scientists have a partial insight into the genetics of osteoporosis. With
further research, Collins said, "you could imagine combining that kind of a test
with a decision to start calcium and vitamin D therapy early on to try to
prevent bone loss before it is clinically apparent, although we don't yet have
evidence" that such therapy will benefit individuals at high risk for
osteoporosis.

   Tests to detect many potential problems will be performed before birth, or
even as part of in vitro fertilization before an embryo is implanted in the
womb. These tests will raise troubling issues: The technology is prone to error,
and at least initially, the tests will be hard to get and expensive.

   As the accuracy improves and costs drop, many will demand the tests to reduce
the chances of bearing a child who is at risk of developing conditions that are
not actually debilitating, but just "undesirable."

   By 2020, doctors will rely on individual genetic variations in prescribing
new and old drugs and choosing the dose. Pharmaceutical companies will take a
second look at some drugs that were never marketed, or were taken off the
market, because some people who took them suffered adverse reactions. It will
take many years to develop such drugs and tests.

   Cancer doctors will use drugs that precisely target a tumor's molecular
fingerprint. One such gene-based designer drug, Herceptin, is already mark eted
for treating advanced breast cancer.

   The genome project holds promise for the mental health field. "One of the
greatest benefits of genomic medicine will be to unravel some biological
contributions to major mental illnesses like schizophrenia and m anic depressive
disease" and produce new therapies, Collins said.

   By 2030, death will still be inevitable, but clinical trials relying on
information from the genome will be under way to extend human life spans. Human
genes like those involved in the aging of flies, worms and mice will be
identified and fully catalogued.

   Scientists working with the genome will develop full computer models of human
cells and analyze all human genes, proteins and their interactions. As a result,
many experiments now done with laboratory animals or even human subjects will be
completed entirely on computers. Collins said that if he were now a graduate
student, he would join this field.

   Groups opposed to technology will be alarmed by these developments and will
act to halt them. "We have to be prepared for that," Collins said.

   By 2040, gene therapy and gene-based drugs will be available for most
diseases. Using information derived from the genes for aging, the average human
life span will reach 90 in the year when Collins would reach that age.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             411 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2000 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                             June 27, 2000 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: The human map is here

BYLINE: Kitta MacPherson, Star-Ledger Staff

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Two fierce rivals put aside years of personal and professional feuding to
announce a landmark in science yesterday: a rough draft of the human genome, the
set of genetic instructions that defines humankind.

    Francis Collins, head of the publicly funded Human Genome Project, and J.
Craig Venter, CEO of the publicly traded Celera Genomics, disclosed they have
finished the critical first phase of charting the genetic code. Their findings,
they said, will be published before the end of the year.

    "Historians will consider this a turning point," Collins said at a White
House ceremony marking the scientific milestone.

   President Clinton hailed the achievement as an epochal moment. "Without a
doubt, this is the most important, most wondrous map ever produced by
humankind," he said.

   The Human Genome Project is about 95 percent complete, and Celera's work is
99 percent finished - far enough along in both instances for the world's
research community to mine the information for gold.

    Scientists will have access to the basic recipe of more than 3 billion pairs
of chemicals that make up DNA and its genes.

    Still, a full understanding of human genetic sequencing is two or more years
away, and the research and development of new drugs and medical treatments will
occupy scientists for many decades to come.

    "This will keep us busy for the rest of the century," said Venter, who has
characterized the work to date as "getting to the starting line."

    Cracking the code should unleash a torrent of medical advances over this
century that could eradicate certain cancers, prevent Alzheimer's disease and
determine how illnesses passed from one generation to the next can be treated.

    Venter and Collins were all smiles for most of their news conference in the
East Room of the White House, but their professional rapprochement didn't come
easily. After a series of four secret meetings that began May 7 and ran through
last week, two scientists who have long feuded over techniques, deadlines and
public access to data elected to bury the hatchet "for the good of science,"
said Ari Patrinos.

    It was Patrinos, a Department of Energy biologist involved in the federal
project, who brokered the truce in a series of beer-and-pizza peace sessions at
his Maryland home.

    The scientists solved the riddle of genetic matter by using entirely
different techniques. Venter's 50-member team, working intensively at the
Rockville, Md., firm the last nine months, used a technique Venter pioneered
called "whole genome shotgun sequencing," which smashes up a genome - a whole
set of human genes - into pieces, sequences them, then uses powerful computers
to place them in the proper order.

    "We have sequenced the genome of three females and two males, who have
identified themselves as Hispanic, Asian, Caucasian or African-American," Venter
said.

    The public effort, which began in 1990, used a more conventional "clone by
clone" approach that proceeded step by step along the genome, at a cost to date
of more than $300 million, Collins said.

    Six countries were involved, with major portions of the genome sequenced by
the Wellcome Trust's Sanger Centre in Britain, the U.S. Department of Energy,
the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass., Washington University in St. Louis,
and Baylor College of Medicine in Texas.

    Rapid progress in genome science and a glimpse into its potential
applications have spurred observers to predict that biology will be the foremost
science of the 21st century.

    "The completion of the sequencing of the genome has and will change the way
we do science," said Eileen White, a cancer researcher at Rutgers University.
"The challenge becomes figuring out what the genes do and how to use the
information to develop new treatments for disease."

    Technology, and the raw data made available daily by the public genome
project, are already having a major impact on research across the life sciences.
Genetic advances have assisted researchers seeking genes associated with dozens
of conditions, including inherited colon cancer and Alzheimer's disease.

    Among U.S. pharmaceutical giants and biotech start-ups, the gold rush is on.
Commercial development of "genomics," which combines classical genetics and the
raw calculating power of supercomputers, presents industry with a wealth of
opportunities. Sales of DNA-based products and technologies are projected to
exceed $45 billion by 2009, according to some in the industry.

    "This represents the first step into the transition from classical
pharmaceuticals into a new gene- based pharmaceutical economy," said Jack Ball,
an executive with Amersham Pharmacia in Piscataway, whose MegaBACE gene
sequencing machines played a major role in the public genome effort.

    Linda Brzustowicz, a physician-researcher who recently uncovered new
evidence confirming a genetic basis for schizophrenia, bases her inquiry on
genome-wide searches for specific gene sequences downloaded from the federal
effort.

    "It would be hard to imagine doing my work without this information, though
I know perfectly well that it wasn't available at all to scientists a generation
ago," said Brzustowicz, who holds joint appointments from Rutgers and the
University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.

    On the horizon is a new era of molecular medicine, characterized less by
treatment of symptoms and more by investigation into the most fundamental causes
of disease.

    Investigators determining the biology of genome organization and gene
regulation will begin to understand how humans develop from single cells to
adults, why this process sometimes goes awry, and what changes take place as
people age.

    Such advances bring with them new challenges for society, critics say.

    "What is forgotten in all the hoopla about who is going to crack the human
DNA code first is that we have done almost nothing to prepare for the advent of
a flood of new genetic information about ourselves," said Arthur Caplan, a
bioethicist at the University of Pennsylvania.

    "Part of the problem is the way the funding was obtained for the genome
project," said Thomas Shannon, a professor of social ethics at the Worcester
Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts. "It was based on a lot of hype that
we're going to be able to cure everything. Hey, could you give us some details
here?"

   "This stuff is really complicated, and it's going to take a long time to
figure out," he added.

   Others said the information afforded by genetic testing outweighs the ethical
and emotional arguments.

    "Our goal is to help individuals make informed decisions for their futures,
such as medical intervention, lifestyle, childbearing and career choices," said
Wayne Grody, a geneticist at the UCLA Medical Center.

    It takes years and millions of dollars to translate gene discovery into new
therapies. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation has spent more than $250 million since
the discovery of the cystic fibrosis gene in 1989 to develop treatments for
patients, according to foundation president Robert Beall.

GRAPHIC: 1. Celera Genomics CEO J. Craig Venter, left, and Human Genome Project
chief Francis Collins discuss the breakthrough after President Clinton's
announcement that the most important sections of the 6.4 billion-character
sequence of human DNA chemicals have been recorded.

1. INFO GRAPHIC: The code of humen life

2.

CHRONOLOGY:

 DNA CODE: BLUEPRINT FOR THE FUTURE

 Here are some of the changes that scientists predict will follow the completion
of the Human Genome Project:

 2010

 Genetic tests will predict risk for 25 diseases; ways to reduce risk will be
available for most of them

 Gene therapy will be successful for hemophilia

 Laws will protect genetic privacy and prevent discrimination

 2020

 Cancer therapy will be precisely targeted at each form of the disease

 Gene-based drugs will treat complex diseases like diabetes, hypertension

 Biological treatments for mental illness will be available

 2030

 Genes responsible for aging will be identified

 Ways to prolong human life will be tested

 People will be able to get printouts of their complete DNA sequence for $1,000

 2040

 Personalized, gene-based medicine will be standard for most diseases

 The average human lifespan will be 90 years

 Humans will be able to direct their own evolution by replacing selected genes

 All crops will be genetically engineered

 3. CHRONOLOGY

 Major events in DNA research:

 Mid-1800s: Austrian monk Gregor Mendel, toiling in obscurity, conducts genetics
experiments on pea plants. His work would be discovered decades later and would
revolutionize biology.

 1868: Using the pus from surgical bandages, Swiss biologist Friedrich Miescher
discovers the nuclei of cells and shows that a chemical within them consists of
an acidic portion he calls nuclein. The substance later becomes known as
deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA.

 1910: In a series of painstaking experiments that would span several decades
and yield a Nobel Prize, Rockefeller Institute scientist Thomas Hunt Morgan
tracks characteristics like eye color through successive generations of fruit
flies and links it to genetic traits.

 1943: First direct evidence for DNA emerges during studies conducted by Oswald
Avery at the Rockefeller Institute. During these experiments, DNA taken from a
disease-causing strain of bacteria permanently transforms another organism into
an equally virulent form.

 1953: American geneticist James Watson and English biochemist Francis Crick,
working at the University of Cambridge in England, discover the double helix
structure of DNA, capping an intense scientific competition that spanned two
continents.

 1972: The recombinant DNA techniques underlying genetic engineering are
developed in California by Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen.

 Mid-1970s: Frederick Sanger at Cambridge and Walter Gilbert and Allan Maxam at
Harvard University develop new methods for determining the order of the four
substances that make up bases in a strand of DNA. The techniques make automated,
high-speed gene sequencing - and thereby the Human Genome   Project - possible.

 1987: Despite public fears over release of an "Andromeda Strain"-type runaway
environmental reaction, the first genetically engineered microorganisms -
frost-resistant strawberries - are used in field experiments in California.

 1990: U.S. government officially launches the Human Genome Project, a 15-year,
$3 billion international scientific effort to map all of the perhaps 100,000
genes in each human chromosome (the number is still unknown) and sequence the
3.2 billion base pairs that make up these genes.

 1998: Maverick scientist Craig Venter, a former government researcher, starts
up Celera Genomics, a private venture, with the express purpose of sequencing
the human genome. He says he can do it faster and with more accuracy than the
federal effort. Venter becomes the toast of Wall Street and the bane of academic
researchers.

 Dec. 1, 1999: Researchers working in the Human Genome Project announce the
complete sequencing of the DNA making up Chromosome 22. Jan. 10, 2000: Celera
Genomics announces it has compiled data covering 90 percent of the human genome,
saying it is on target to finish the task later this year.

 Mar. 14, 2000: President Clinton and British Prime Minister Tony Blair issue a
joint statement announcing they support the rapid release of human genome
sequence data, a principle long advocated by Francis Collins, director of the
publicly supported Human Genome Institute. Rival Venter sees the action as a
rebuke. Biotech stocks tumble.

 April 4, 2000:  Monsanto announces its "stealth genome," saying it has decoded
the rice genome sufficiently to produce a "working draft." Rice researchers the
world over are stunned - they have been working toward the same end and were
unaware of the industrial effort. The company pledges to share the data with
researchers around the world.

 April 6, 2000: Celera says it has finished sequencing one person's genetic
code, completing a major step in the project of completing the human genome. The
person is not identified.

 June 26, 2000: The government and Celera jointly announce that a rough draft of
the human genome is complete.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007


                             412 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2000 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                             June 27, 2000 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: They've got the map - but not all the answers

BODY:

   Some questions and answers arising from yesterday's announcement that
scientists and researchers have completed a rough draft of the human genetic
code:   Q. What is a gene?

   A. Even scientists disagree on exactly how to define it. Generally, a gene is
a series of chemical bases along a DNA strand; each gene determines the
formation and function of a single protein. Proteins do the work of the body,
building structures and catalyzing biochemical reactions.

   Q. Do genes determine everything about us?

   A. Genes and environment work together to shape what we are. Because
environment includes everything we experience and come into contact with from
conception through death, it also plays an awesome and extremely complex role.

   Q. How many genes are there?

   A. Not even scientists know. What they announced yesterday is basically a
string of more than 3 billion letters, each letter representing a chemical base,
but the number of letters per gene varies widely. In a betting pool set up
recently by one scientist, estimates ranged from about 34,000 to 140,000 genes
in human DNA.

   Q. How genetically similar are we to one another?

   A. Individual humans share 99.9 percent of their DNA. That means that of the
3 billion letters in the human genetic code, each of us differs in about
300,000. Remarkably, those variations are scattered throughout the species,
without regard to what we think of as race.

   Q. How genetically similar are we to other species?

   A. Scientists have been amazed at how much there is in common. Humans share
80 percent of their genes with mice. About 99 percent of human DNA is also found
in chimpanzees. That means chimps are more closely related to humans than to
gorillas.

   Q. Will the mapping of genes lead to a cure for cancer and other serious
diseases?

   A. Virtually every disease has some genetic cause. Some are simple
"misspellings" that may be compensated for by drugs or corrected with gene
therapy, a technology still in its infancy. Others diseases, such as
schizophrenia, are processes set off by multiple unknown genes that interact in
complex ways. As scientists gain more knowledge about genes, they will develop
new treatments based on that knowledge. The outlook is especially good over the
next few decades for some cancers and Alzheimer's disease. Will anybody be able
to use my genetic information against me? There are great concerns that genetic
technology will be used to discriminate against people in employment, insurance
coverage and other areas. People also worry that the discovery of a "violence
gene" could be used to deny the civil rights of individuals based on their
perceived potential to commit crimes in the future. Although President Clinton
recently signed an executive order forbidding federal employment discrimination
on the basis of genetics and Congress is considering legislation, many of these
issues remain unresolved. Why all this fanfare if the job of mapping the entire
genome won't be finished for two more years? In their experience cataloging the
genes of dozens of other species, scientists have learned that the last few
letters of code are the toughest. But for practical purposes, the human genome
is ready to use. What happens now? Small rear guards of both the private and
government teams will continue working to produce a more exact sequence of the
chemical bases in DNA. But as Craig Venter, co-founder and president of Celera,
puts it: "This is a race to the starting line." Scientists know roughly where to
find the genes, but only about 3 percent of the DNA landscape that's been mapped
actually contains genes that issue chemical codes to construct every bit of the
human body and tell it how to act. Connecting specific genes to specific
proteins could take the better part of a century, Venter and others say.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007


                             413 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         June 27, 2000 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: IDENTIFYING RIGHT GENE IS MERELY THE FIRST STEP

BYLINE: By John Mangels Newhouse News Service

BODY:

   Now that the Human Genome Project has announced success after its $3 billion,
10-year effort to solve the human genetic code, it's easy to believe that new
treatments and even cures for gene-caused diseases are just around the corner.

   There's no doubt the project eventually will produce big payoffs for
patients. But researchers caution that, just as Neil Armstrong's first dusty
steps on the moon didn't immediately enable us to colonize the heavens,
exploitation of the wealth of genetic material will take time. Knowing what a
gene's components are and where to find them on the endless, twisting strands of
our DNA is a long way from understanding how those genes work and how to fix
them when they falter. Often, the answers raise more questions, scientists say.

   A case in point: cystic fibrosis.

   The single gene whose failure causes this fatal disease of mucous- choked
lungs was discovered and deciphered 11 years ago, in a miniature version of the
just-completed Genome Project. Although researchers said that knowledge of the
gene has resulted in a much better understanding of what happens in cystic
fibrosis and some ways to affect the process, there have been no breakthrough
treatments yet.

   "That was the hope; we'd find the gene, and that would get us through the
bottleneck," said Mitchell Drumm, a geneticist at the Case Western Reserve
University School of Medicine.

   As a graduate student, Drumm was part of the international team that for
months painstakingly combed through a million bits of genetic material on
Chromosome 7 until finally locating the cystic fibrosis gene in 1989.

   "Ten years isn't all that long in terms of the research process, but it's
half the life span of a CF patient," Drumm said. "That's frustrating. We really
understand how ignorant we were before about what was happening at the molecular
level."

   Genes are recipe books that hold the instructions for making proteins. The
gene that causes cystic fibrosis is supposed to make a protein that manages the
movement of salt components into and out of the cells that line the lungs,
pancreas and intestinal tract. The salt components, sodium and chloride, in turn
dictate the flow of water.

   The defective cystic fibrosis gene starts a cascade of problems. It makes a
faulty protein, which then can't direct the conveyor belt that moves chloride
out of cells. Chloride builds up and combines with sodium to form salt, causing
the cells to suck water from their surroundings to try to restore a balance.

   The water gets pulled from mucous that normally coats the lining of the
breathing passages and the gut. The mucous becomes thick and sticky. It clogs
the lungs and traps bacteria that cause repeated infections. And it blocks the
pancreas, preventing digestive chemicals from getting to the intestines where
they are needed to break down food.

   Cystic fibrosis patients used to die in childhood from malnourishment. As
doctors have gotten better at treating the digestive problems, patients now
typically live until their late 20s but eventually succumb to lung infection and
damage.

   Dr. Pamela Davis remembers the elation she felt when word came that the
cystic fibrosis gene had been identified. As chief of the division of pediatric
pulmonary disease at Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital in Cleveland and
co-director of University Hospitals' Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center, Davis had
grown close to her patients and their families. And she had seen the survival
curve that had risen so dramatically from the 1960s to the '80s flatten out as
treatments reached their limits.

   Patients just couldn't live much past their late 20s without breakthroughs.

   Davis said, "Having the gene was tremendous. It was tremendous excitement.
Now we had a key. We were all naive and hopeful."

   Gene therapy "has got to work," Davis said. "We're just not smart enough to
do it yet."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             414 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         June 27, 2000 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST PLOT ROAD MAP OF HUMAN DNA

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus The Boston Globe

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   In an achievement so profound that no metaphor seemed able to capture it,
scientists said Monday they have pieced together a "rough draft" of the human
genome: the entire set of DNA scripts in our cells that strongly influence
health and illness, behavior, special abilities, and how long we live.

   Two competing teams each said they had mapped more than 3 billion letters of
DNA code, the majority of the genome, and had sequenced, or identified, 85
percent to 99 percent of the genome. The information pouring out of these
projects is giving biomedical researchers an avalanche of data they say will
revolutionize medicine and give humankind unprecedented knowledge of its genetic
endowment.

   It will take another year or two to fill in gaps and correct errors in the
genetic map, but what has been achieved has been more successful and less
expensive than anticipated when the audacious plan was crafted little more than
a decade ago.

   The two rival scientific groups, one public and the other employed by a
private biotechnology company, put aside wrangling for a day to announce in a
joint appearance that they were in about the same place in sequencing the genome
information.

   --- 'Most wondrous map' ---

   President Clinton called the information in the draft -- an immense string of
chemical letters, a 100,000-page-long sentence, that tell cells how to make
proteins -- "the most important, most wondrous map ever produced."

   Other comparisons floated during a White House ceremony and scientific news
conference were to Galileo's discoveries in the solar system, the invention of
the printing press, the Manhattan Project that produced the first atomic bomb,
and the decadelong space program that landed men on the moon.

   "We have caught a glimpse of an instruction book previously known only to
God," said Dr. Francis Collins, the geneticist who led the public consortium.

   J. Craig Venter, president of Celera Genomics Inc., the private company that
entered the genomic race 20 months ago, said the research provides the potential
to wipe out cancer and other diseases "in our lifetime."

   But even the most ebullient scientists sobered as they warned of dangers that
individuals' unique genetic messages might be used against them because the
information could reveal future disease risks or be linked to purported
behavioral traits. Collins, the director of the international Human Genome
Project financed largely by the federal government, urged rapid passage of
national legislation to protect genetic privacy.

   --- Just a starting point ---

   Obtaining the genetic sequence information is only a starting point: the raw
DNA messages have to be analyzed to find out what genes they contain, what
proteins the cells make from those gene recipes, and how the proteins interact
with each other to build the body and regulate its function.

   With just the DNA sequence, "We have the encyclopedia, but we don't have
Hamlet," said Shirley Tilghman, a Princeton University geneticist and an
architect of the genome project.

   Although 16 research centers contributed to the public genome project, the
final push in the past 18 months was credited to the five largest centers. One
of the five, operated by the Whitehead Institute and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, churned out about a third of the DNA code by itself, about 1.2
billion chemical letters of DNA, the biggest production of any of the centers.

   Eric Lander, the Whitehead scientist who led the effort, said the center had
gone from a "dark horse" in the sequencing effort to excelling because of
innovations in organizing the work.

   Tilghman, at Princeton, said Lander was "one of the heroes" in the public
effort, and praised his "creative, out-of-the-box thinking" that stepped up the
pace of sequencing.

   --- 'Personalized' drugs predicted ---

   Gene sequence information released by the Human Genome Project as it went
along has been pounced on by biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, which
predict a new era of "personalized" medicine in which drugs will be tailored to
individuals' differences. Knowing the human gene sequence would mean that
genetic tests could predict what illnesses a person would be prone to, and gene
therapy could be used to treat the diseases by correcting the genetic errors
that caused them. Eventually, people might have gene tests at birth that predict
their entire future health patterns.

   Collins, who led the consortium of 16 gene-reading centers financed by the
National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy, said the project
scientists estimate that it requires 3.15 billion chemical letters -- in a
four-letter alphabet of repeating As, Cs, Ts and Gs -- to spell out the DNA
instructions by which an individual develops from an embryo and becomes a
functioning adult.

   The federal project has determined the exact sequence of those chemical
letters in about 85 percent of those 3.15 billion letters, Collins said. About
$300 million has been spent on the public effort, he said.

   --- Near-identical estimate ---

   Celera's Venter reported a near-identical estimate for the size of the
genome, 3.12 billion letters, and said his company's supercomputers had
assembled sequence information equivalent to 99 percent of the genome.

   But scientists on both sides said those numbers can't be compared because the
federal project's sequence information has been checked an average of seven
times per base, or chemical letter, while Celera's has been checked about four
times per base.

   Venter's company, which has spent hundreds of millions of dollars sequencing
lower organisms such as a bacterium and the fruit fly in addition to the human
genome, plans to make money by giving subscribers a first look at the sequence
information packaged along with other research information, and computer
programs that aid in translating the sequence into drugs and other products.

   Venter said Celera, which "doesn't have thousands of scientists," but which
early on harnessed new robotic DNA sequencing machines, began decoding the human
genome in September, and tested Venter's strategy for speeding the process by
sequencing the genome of Drosophila, the fruit fly.

   The biggest source of conflict between the two projects was Venter's refusal
to publicly release Celera's sequence data until subscribers have had a chance
to view it and search it for patentable genes. Moreover, about 30 percent of
Celera's sequence data came from the public GenBank database into which the
Human Genome Project has been depositing its data every 24 hours.

GRAPHIC: Do genes determine everything about us?  Genes and environment work
together to shape who we are. Because environment includes everything we
experience and come into contact with from conception through death, it also
plays an extremely complex role.  What is a gene?  Even scientists disagree on
how to define a gene. Generally, a gene is a sequence of DNA that codes for a
single protein. Proteins do the work of the body, building structures and
catalyzing biochemical reactions.  How many genes are there?  Because what
scientists announced Monday is basically a string of 3 billion letters, not even
scientists know how many genes there are. In a betting pool set up recently by
one scientist, estimates ranged from about 34,000 to 140,000.  How genetically
similar are we to one another?  Individual humans share 99.9 percent of their
DNA. That means that of the 3 billion letters in the human genetic code, each of
us differs in about 300,000. Those variations are scattered throughout the human
species without regard to what we think of as race.  How genetically similar are
we to other species?  Scientists have been amazed at how genetically similar
humans are to other species. Humans share 80 percent of their genes with mice
and about 99 percent of their DNA with chimpanzees. That means chimps are more
closely related to humans than to gorillas.  Will this lead to a cure for cancer
and other serious diseases?  Virtually every disease has some genetic cause.
Some are simple genetic misspellings that may be compensated for with drugs or
corrected with gene therapy. Other diseases, such as schizophrenia, are
processes set off by genes that interact in complex ways. As scientists gain
more knowledge about genes, they will develop new treatments. The outlook is
especially good over the next few decades for some cancers and Alzheimer's
disease.  Will anybody be able to use my genetic information against me?  There
are great concerns that genetic technology will be used to discriminate against
people in employment, insurance coverage and other areas. People also worry that
the discovery of a "violence gene" could be used to deny the civil rights of
individuals based on their perceived potential to commit crimes in the future.
Although President Clinton recently signed an executive order forbidding federal
employment discrimination on the basis of genetics and Congress is considering
legislation, many of these issues remain unresolved.  FUTURE OF GENETIC SCIENCE
The rough draft of the human genome marks only the start of a long scientific
journey.  It will take years for practical applications to emerge.  some
possible advances: 2002-2003: *Mapping of entire human genome 100% complete
2002-2010: *First tests of fenetic screening against risk of cancer, diabetes
and strokes 2015: *Medical treatments tailored to the genetic makeup of each
individual available 2025: *Doctors able to correct genetic flaws, controlling
some congenital diseases 2050: *Many diseases cured at molecular level before
they arise *Average life span reaches 90-95 years *Increased knowledge about
human population and aging genes THE PATH TO THE HUMAN GENOME Researchers have
completed mapping the human genome, the DNA or genetic code of humans.  Some
steps: August 1995: Simple bacterium 482 genes 580,000 DNA units
--------------------------- November 1996: Yeast ---------------------------
September 1997: E. coli, a large bacterium --------------------------- December
1998: Roundworm --------------------------- March 2000: Fruit fly
--------------------------- June 2000: Human *100,000 genes *3 billion DNA units
Source: National Center for Human Genome Research, Stanford University,
Whitehead Institute, Institute for Genomic Studies KRT GRAPHIC The spiral or
double helix DNA, left, is one long molecule that contains more than 3 billion
chemical letters. A gene is a segment of that DNA that carries instructions,
giving a person brown eyes, for example. A genome is the complete genetic code
of one person.  PHOTO President Clinton and J. Craig Venter, right, president of
Celera Genomics Inc., join British Prime Minister Tony Blair via video from
London during the joint announcement in Washington on Monday by Celera and the
international Human Genome Project. Scientists' 'rough draft' of the human
genome is seen as one of history's great scientific milestones, the biological
equivalent of the moon landing.  AP PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2000


                             415 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Bone Marrow Cells Offer Hope for Liver Therapies; Study of Transplants
Shows a Transformation

BYLINE: Susan Okie , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Certain cells from human bone marrow can travel to the liver and transform
themselves into liver cells, contributing to that organ's well-known ability to
heal and regenerate itself, according to a new study released yesterday.

   Researchers said the discovery, previously observed in rats and mice but
never in people, offers the prospect of new treatments for liver failure and
gene therapies for metabolic diseases, as well as a possible avenue for
eventually growing artificial livers in the laboratory.

   Cirrhosis of the liver, most often caused by chronic viral infections or
alcohol abuse, is the eighth leading cause of death in the United States,
killing some 25,000 annually. Almost 4,500 Americans received liver transplants
in 1998. The finding that cells from the bone marrow--which normally
manufactures blood cells--can become liver cells is the latest in a startling
variety of cellular transformations that scientists have witnessed in the last
few years, forcing them to revise their ideas about how much change a supposedly
"adult" cell can undergo.

   Until recently, researchers assumed that mature cells could only produce
others of their own type. The sole exception was thought to be certain "stem"
cells, found chiefly in the developing embryo and fetus, which are capable of
transforming themselves into many different kinds of cells.

   But new findings have challenged that assumption. For instance, bone marrow
cells are also able to produce nerve cells, muscle cells and lung cells, while
nerve and muscle cells are able to produce blood cells, said Neil D. Theise,
principal author of the study, which appears in the July issue of the journal
Hepatology. "I think it's a fundamental shift," said Theise, an associate
professor of pathology at New York University School of Medicine. "My fallback
position now is that any cell that contains the entire genome--and most cells
do--has the potential to turn on any aspect of that genome and be any [kind of]
cell."

   The study, performed by a team from NYU, Yale University School of Medicine
and Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, examined cells in the livers of
people who had received "cross-sex" organ transplants. Two of the patients were
women with leukemia who had received bone marrow transplants from male donors.
Four were men who had received liver transplants from female donors.

   Each human cell contains two sex chromosomes--a pair of X chromosomes in
women, an X and a Y chromosome in men. Thus, the liver cells of the women with
leukemia should have contained only X chromosomes (since the "male" transplanted
cells presumably went only to their bone marrow). Cells in the donated livers of
the four male patients should also have contained only X chromosomes, since
those organs came from women.

   But when the researchers used special techniques to make the sex chromosomes
fluorescent, they found that the female leukemia patients' livers contained some
cells with "male" Y chromosomes that could only have come from their
transplanted bone marrow. And the men who had received women's livers
nevertheless had some liver cells with Y chromosomes, indicating that cells from
elsewhere in their bodies--presumably their bone marrow--had traveled to the
donated livers and were helping to regenerate them. The team used cell-staining
techniques to ensure that the Y chromosomes they observed belonged to liver
cells, not to blood cells or to other cell types.

   Diane S. Krause, an assistant professor of laboratory medicine at Yale and
one of the study's co-authors, said much liver regeneration undoubtedly is
performed by the organ itself, both by mature liver cells and by stem cells
residing in the liver. "The question was: 'Is there a liver stem cell that is
outside . . . that the liver can call on when it needs it?' "

   The answer appears to be yes--and the bone marrow may contribute new liver
cells even in healthy people, since the two leukemia patients had relatively
normal livers, Krause added. The researchers next plan to use laboratory animals
to identify which of several types of bone marrow cells can give rise to liver
cells. Krause said it may eventually be possible to treat patients with genetic
diseases of the liver by removing the proper bone marrow cells, inserting a
working version of the defective gene, and giving back the treated cells which
would then be able to grow normal liver tissue.

   Theise suggested that cells from bone marrow might someday be used in an
artificial liver that could serve as an "assist device" for patients with liver
failure, much like an artificial heart for someone with heart failure.

   Such applications will have to wait until researchers learn more about how to
stimulate bone marrow cells to help out a failing liver, but the new study "says
it should be possible to do this," said Markus C. Grompe, a professor of
molecular medical genetics at Oregon Health Sciences University.

   The newly recognized versatility of "adult" cells may allow scientists to
develop many new therapies without resorting to embryonic or fetal cells, he
suggested. "This would suggest that maybe you don't need any type of fetal stem
cell at all--that our adult bodies continue to have stem cells that can do this
stuff."


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             416 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                     Christian Science Monitor (Boston, MA)

                             June 26, 2000, Monday

SECTION: USA; SCIENCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Where willDNA map lead us?

BYLINE: Peter N. Spotts, Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

HIGHLIGHT:
Scientists announce that they now have a rough draft of the human genetic code.

BODY:



   Are human beings merely the sum of their genes?

That question commands humanity's attention with today's scheduled announcement
that scientists have developed "rough drafts" of a human's genetic blueprint -
the human genome.

Just as 19th-century scientists placed chemical elements in a descriptive
framework - the periodic table - and helped pave the way for many of the 20th
century's scientific revolutions, biomedical researchers expect the sequenced
genome to spark a 21st-century revolution in human biology and medicine.

Even before the rough draft's gaps have been filled and errors reduced,
researchers have started to identify individual genes and their functions. That
effort is already leading to technology that could change conventional
therapies.

Over the longer term, scientists are working toward treatments that repair or
replace genes deemed faulty. In principle, some researchers say, understanding
genes and the role they play - singly or in combination with other genes -
eventually could lead to genetic treatments that augment or enhance human
functions such as hearing or sight.

Yet others urge caution. They hold that the promise of medical advances may be
premature, and that the glamour of gene therapies may obscure cheaper, more
cost-effective approaches to treating many diseases. In addition, they say, an
emphasis on genes could lead to a broader definition of what constitutes illness
- defining human health by probabilities based on the genes people carry instead
of whether a malady actually manifests itself.

This redefinition raises concerns about employers or insurance companies
discriminating against people because they carry gene mutations associated with
a certain disease. It also has led ethicists and scientists to caution against
overstating the role genes play in who we are.

"We have to educate physicians and the general public" about how genetic
information should be used and interpreted, says George Annas, chairman of the
health law department at Boston University's School of Public Health. "We are
not our genes."

He says education about the limits of genetic information - amid inflated
expectations of its promise - is part of the defense against lapsing into
genetic determinism.

"Genes matter," adds Ruth Hubbard, professor emerita of biology at Harvard
University and adviser to the Council for Responsible Genetics in Cambridge,
Mass. "But what really matters is the relation between genes, and between genes
and other elements that make up us."

Many of these concerns and ethical questions have been around for years, but now
that we have a rough draft of the genome, the pace of discovery - and efforts to
get those discoveries to market - is likely to increase.

"Once you understand the building blocks, you can describe processes and predict
properties," says Richard Young, a professor of biology at the Whitehead
Institute and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. "Once
you understand the building blocks, it leads to extremely rapid advances."

Now that the sequence of chemical building blocks has been sketched, new
technologies are being introduced, he says, that will greatly speed the process
of identifying individual genes - the next major phase of the Human Genome
Project. "If you'd asked me three months ago, I'd have said this is a 20-year
project. Now I think it will be done in about six years."

Even so, the task is daunting: Researchers must sort through some 3 billion
pairings of four chemical compounds, or nucleotides.

These nucleotides form DNA, a molecule that lies in the nucleus of cells. Genes
are segments of the DNA molecule that carry the instructions cells need to
function. Each nucleus contains a complete complement of human DNA, although a
cell may need only a relative handful of genes to do its work.

The human genome holds an estimated 80,000 to 100,000 genes, although Dr. Young
notes that no one really knows how many genes there are.

While the quest to understand the human genome continues, some skepticism
remains about whether its medical potential - particularly for gene therapies -
will live up to its billing.

"We keep hearing that perhaps, eventually, there will be benefits to health -
that once we understand the DNA basis of disease, it will become easier to treat
or prevent. But is that true? That's an open question," says Dr. Hubbard. "For
years, we have had the complete DNA readout of HIV, but that hasn't made it any
easier to deal with HIV or the manifestations of AIDS."

What effect it will have on how we view identity is also a question of
increasing urgency, say others.

"Are we prisoners of our genes? The answer to that question is very important.
It affects our thinking about human nature," says Arthur Caplan, director of the
Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

For the Whitehead Institute's Young, there's much more to learn before we
understand any how genetics and related.

"There's a reductionist approach to science, where you break things into their
smallest bits and try to understand them," he says. "But those small bits will
never fully describe how complex systems work. Once we have the genome, we still
won't be able to tell you what fraction of behavior or character comes from your
genome, because we're not equipped to understand the combined effects of 100,000
genes in each of 10 trillion cells."

   (c) Copyright 2000. The Christian Science Publishing Society


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000


                             417 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      June 26, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Complicated questions on new economic issues await next president

BYLINE: Susan Page

BODY:

   After forcing a consensus on some old economic debates, the new
economy is likely to create new divisions on emerging issues now
seen only hazily on the horizon -- and rarely discussed on the
campaign trail.

   The next president will face a series of tough choices on complicated
questions: How can and should the government break up monopolies
or bar child labor when the corporations involved are global ones
that blur national boundaries? How can world capital markets be
policed to avoid fraud and enforce contracts? Should Internet
purchases be taxed? How can privacy be protected on the Web? How
should the government respond to such global environmental challenges
as climate change? Should the government write ethics rules for
biotechnology breakthroughs?

   George W. Bush and Al Gore have avoided making extensive comments
on the biggest new economy case in court, the proposed Microsoft
breakup. Both endorse a moratorium on taxing purchases made over
the Internet -- Gore for two years, Bush for three to five years
-- and call for the government to address the "digital divide"
in computer access between rich and poor.


   Beyond that, in interviews, they seemed more comfortable listing
the challenges ahead than prescribing solutions for them. "Privacy
issues should be addressed, and the issue of security on the Internet
needs to be addressed," Bush said. "It's going to require the
president working with members of Congress as well as members
of the industry to come up with different solutions, innovative
solutions."

   Gore had a laundry list of issues: climate change, Internet privacy,
the "provocative ethical questions" presented by breakthroughs
in gene therapy and the development in this decade of what amounts
to artificial intelligence.

   The vice president said he was optimistic about "the emergence
of brand-new opportunities to solve problems that have defied
solution for all the ages." But he added, "There's no doubt
that the consequences of poor decisions are going to be much greater
because the stakes are higher."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000


                             418 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      June 26, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Cracking of life's genetic code carries weighty potential

BODY:

   In a rare moment of genuinely awesome significance, scientists
in Washington today are expected to announce that they have unstrung
the human genome, biology's basic book of life. It's an achievement
of thrilling and unimaginable consequences, for which we are woefully
ill-prepared.

   The achievement heralds the dawn of a new medical era. Decoded
but not yet fully deciphered, the genome promises to give us a
vastly improved understanding of disease and a greater facility
with diagnosis and treatment. Genetic tests can be used not just
to anticipate illnesses, but also to customize individual therapies
to prevent or remedy them.


   Indeed, compared to other medical-research campaigns, which typically
focus on curing ailments or solving riddles, the sequencing of
the human genome is remarkable more for the possibilities it presents
than the science it resolves. It took more than 10 years for scientists
to assemble the 3.5 billion rungs of the human genetic code. Interpreting
and understanding it could take scientists most of the next century.

   What does it all mean? Think of the human genome as the ingredients
list for a massive Thanksgiving dinner. Scientists long have had
a general understanding of how the feast is cooked. They knew
where the ovens were. Now, they also have a list of every ingredient.

   Yet much remains to be discovered. In most cases, no one knows
exactly which ingredients are necessary for making, for example,
the pumpkin pie as opposed to the cornbread. Indeed, many, if
not most, of the recipes that use the genomic ingredients are
missing, and there's little understanding why small variations
in the quality of the ingredients can "cook up" diseases in
one person but not in another.

   Consequently, publication of the genome is bound to accelerate
an already-frenzied sprint among scientists to claim ownership
of valuable recipes. This high-stakes race illustrates the need
for new regulatory and ethical thinking in at least three fields.

   * Ownership: Should someone be allowed to claim ownership
of the recipe for pecan pie simply because he suspects he has
found the right ingredients in the kitchen? Some researchers have
tried filing patents on strings of genetic code without knowing
exactly what the code produces.

   * Use: Carrying a gene that indicates a disease risk doesn't
mean you'll get the disease. Yet there are allegations already
by individuals who believe they were denied jobs or health insurance
on that basis. Likewise, fears are rising that the privacy of
a person's genetic coding, the ultimate in personal information,
is not adequately protected.

   * Utility and ethics: Imagine being able to replace the
gene linked to a horrible developmental disorder. Now imagine
a "genetocracy" created by adjustments for intelligence, strength
or beauty. Say no more.

   In each case, the necessary conversations or controls are inadequate.
Patent officials have only recently cracked down on imprecise
applications. Almost 40 states have outlawed genetic discrimination,
but there's no unifying federal standard. And neither researchers
nor regulators have exercised reassuring control of gene-therapy
experiments.

   Unraveling the human genome is a spectacular, even millennial,
achievement. But on the cusp of a new age in medicine, the high-fiving
cooks of genomic science require more oversight in the kitchens
and at the table.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY, Source:National Human Genome Research
Institute(Bar graph)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000


                             419 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                      June 25, 2000, Sunday 4 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2589 words

HEADLINE: Racing to the finish line ;
Rival groups to announce gene research milestone

SOURCE: Staff

BYLINE: TODD ACKERMAN, Houston Chronicle Science Writer

BODY:

   And so they approach the finish line, two rivals neck and neck in a race to
decode the blueprint of life.

   The winner can claim credit for providing no less than the operating
instructions for a human body: the chemical identity of the genes that shape how
we think, feel and act, and our susceptibility to disease. The result promises a
revolution in medicine as dramatic as Louis Pasteur's 19th century discovery
that germs cause disease.

   "This will have an impact on all aspects of medicine," said George Weinstock,
a Baylor College of Medicine member of a public team of scientists that a decade
ago pledged to finish mapping the human genome in 2005. "In the future, your
gene profile will be as indispensable to a visit to the hospital or doctor as
your blood type or list of things to which you're allergic are now."

   The Human Genome Project, as the decade-long effort is known, is the most
ambitious and expensive biology project ever undertaken, frequently compared to
the moon shot and the Manhattan Project. It is expected to bring changes as
sweeping as those wrought by the microchip in the 1990s. It includes four large
sequencing centers in the United States - Baylor among them - and others
overseas and employs about 1,100 scientists. Its expected final price tag is $ 2
billion.

   On Monday, the public consortium and a private company that two years ago
vowed to beat it to the finish line are expected to make separate and competing
announcements that they have largely completed the task. Both will tell the
world they have identified and placed in order almost all of the approximately 3
billion DNA base pairs that make up the human genome.

   The dual announcements will mark the reaching of an admittedly arbitrary
line, drawn and then redrawn by the participants to please impatient investors
and congressional funders. Originally, the plan called for identifying 99.9
percent of the chemical building blocks in the genetic code before declaring
victory, but Monday's announcement will come with the job actually just more
than 90 percent done. It will be another 2 1/2 years before every letter of the
code is put exactly in place.

   Nevertheless, even such a rough draft of the human genome (accessible on the
Internet at www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) represents a historic milestone in human
self-knowledge. When the project was launched in 1990 - and for a number of
years thereafter - scientists weren't sure how much of the genome could be
deciphered and whether the team could meet their then 2005 deadline.




   Increased life spans


    Instead, the talk now is about the expected medical windfall: improved
diagnosis, early detection of genetic predispositions to disease, diet
recommendations tailored to each individual and rational drug design that uses
genetic information to prevent disease from arising or treat it without side
effects.

   "Prevention and treatment strategies will shift from one-size-fits-all to a
much more invididualized approach," said Francis Collins, director of the public
consortium of scientists that launched the Human Genome Project a decade ago.
"It will be more effective and more cost-effective."

   And it is expected to lead to increased natural life spans of healthy humans,
something 20th century medicine hasn't accomplished. Vaccines and antibiotics
vanquished entire classes of diseases, but they were essentially helpless
against inherited ones. The Human Genome Project promises to change that.

   No one yet knows exactly how it will work, of course, but scientists say it's
a good bet doctors will drip droplets of people's genes onto a biochip to
determine whether one patient has the kind of prostate cancer that will kill or
to determine if another's hypertension responds to this drug or that one. Tests
will analyze children's genes to assess their chances of succumbing to heart
disease or Alzheimer's. Some scientists say it now is only a matter of time
before the growing knowledge finally ushers in the era of gene therapy: directly
adding healthy genes to a patient's body.




    Questions still remain


    Such benefits will not come without apprehensions. Genetically engineering
babies to choose their traits, the most agonized-over possibility, still seems
in the distant future. But there are enough immediate moral, social and legal
concerns that bioethicists worry that society is nowhere close to being ready
for the high-tech new world.

   Consider some of the questions: Will insurers and employers have access to
genetic information and discriminate based upon it? Will costs of advances
brought by the project deepen the divide between the world's haves and
have-nots? How will genetic tests, currently all but unregulated, be evaluated
for accuracy and reliability? And who should own gene information - the public
or the private companies that already have filed thousands of patent
applications?

   Other questions are more philosophical in nature: Do you really want to be
diagnosed with a disease that can't be treated - and won't affect you for 20
years? Will our genes be seen as controlling our behavior and thus lessen
society's emphasis on responsibility? Will we put too much faith in those genes
and lose the spirit to reach for more?

   "The Human Genome Project is as important and necessary a thing to do as
mapping the world was in the 16th century," said Arthur Caplan, a University of
Pennsylvania bioethicist. "But it's a good thing nothing is going to change with
(this) week's announcement because we first need national genetic privacy laws,
federal standards of quality control and informed counselors to help people
consider these thorny issues. Ten years from now, the explosion of diagnostic
tests will require all to be in place."

   The project may now be the darling of the scientific community, but it had to
overcome obscurity - President Bush called it in the Human Gnome Initiative in a
1989 speech - skepticism from biologists who questioned whether it could be done
and a glacially slow progress in the early years.

   By May 1998, the original halfway point, the public consortium labs had
decoded about 3 percent of the human genome, due partly to a painstaking and
precise approach that has been compared to taking out one page of an
encyclopedia at a time, ripping it up and reassembling it. It owed also to the
jigsaw-puzzlelike nature of the project in which the hardest work came early and
the easiest came late: it took 100 scientists 10 years to discover in 1990 the
gene that causes cystic fibrosis, while in 1997 it took a single postdoctoral
scientist and a few part-time assistants a year to discover the gene that causes
Pendred syndrome, an inherited cause of deafness, and to develop a test that
identifies the causative mutations in that gene.




    A private approach


    But in May 1998, a California surfer-turned-scientist named Craig Venter
dropped a bombshell. He announced that he created a new company, Celera
Genomics, that would single-handedly sequence the human genome in just three
years. Armed with the newest, fastest and most sophisticated DNA analyzers and
supercomputers, it took a shorter route than the public team: shredding the
encyclopedia all at once, then relying on the computers to reassemble the
fragments into a whole genome.

   (Celera also has had a decided advantage. It has been able to use the public
consortium's data on the Internet to check and fill the gaps in its rough
draft.)

   Celera's declaration goosed the public consortium. Having just acquired the
same DNA analyzers themselves, they revamped plans - concentrating money in the
five fastest labs and vowing to finish the sequencing by 2003 and produce a
rough draft first by 2001, then by 2000 - and a sometimes acrimonious race was
on. But last week, a truce was declared to allow both sides to announce their
rough drafts Monday, and talk turned back to the excitement of the work.

   "With this technology we are literally coming out of the dark ages of
biology," Venter said. "

   The human genome is best thought of as the aforementioned encyclopedia filled
with a 3.2-billion-letter sentence - or long enough to fill 100,000 newspaper
pages. The sentence, a copy of which is folded inside virtually every one of the
body's trillion cells, is written in an eye-glazing alphabet of the letters C,
G, A and T. Each letter represents a DNA molecule - cytosine, guanosine, adenine
or thymine.

   The pattern of the letters amounts to a coded set of instructions that tells
a cell how to make a key product, such as a hormone, or how to complete some
other essential task, such as reproducing itself. When the code is written
correctly, everything functions smoothly. But any misspelling can result in a
defect or a disease.

   That means each person's predisposition to disease can be found in
misspellings in their genetic coding. Of the estimated 100,000 genes in human
DNA, at least 4,000 are believed to be directly involved in the onset of
diseases, and countless others contribute to ailments in more subtle ways.

   The achievement that genome researchers are about to announce is that most
all of the encyclopedia's letters have been identified and placed in proper
order. But that doesn't mean anyone has mastered them yet. After all, they are
written in a code that will take more time to crack.




    Sequencing chromosomes


    Nevertheless, leaders of the public consortium predict that within the next
three to five years researchers will find most of the genes that individually
cause diseases. Within a few more after that, they say, they should uncover most
of the multiple genes that combine with environmental factors to play a major
role in cancer, heart disease and a host of other complex degenerative diseases.

   "It's detective work," said Eric Green, a gene hunter at the National Human
Genome Research Institute in Bethesda, Md. "First you find the page of a book
that has what you're interested in. Then you find the words. Then you look to
see where the typo is."

   The biggest news out of the Human Genome Project thus far has been the
completion in December of the mapping of Chromosome 22, the first human
chromosome ever decoded, and the completion last month of Chromosome 21, which
is associated with Down syndrome and other serious disorders such as Alzheimer's
disease and epilepsy. The two are the smallest of the 23 pairs of chromosomes in
each human body.

   Baylor College of Medicine is sequencing chromosomes 3, 12 and X, all of
which it had been working on before the international effort was launched a
decade ago. Chromosome 3 carries a gene linked to lung and colon cancer and
dementia. Chromosome 12 carries a gene that is a major receptor for HIV (and
some cancers) and that may explain why some people remain resistant to AIDS.

   Chromosome X, one of the sex-determining chromosomes (females have two Xs,
males one X and one Y), likely has at least 3,000 genes, each possibly involved
in disease and 400 almost certainly involved in devastating disease. Though X is
associated with muscular dystrophy, hemophilia and colorblindness, it is also
implicated in numerous "orphan" gene disorders, the thousands of uncommon
diseases that lack large patient lobbying groups and scientists trying to solve
them.




    Growing efforts


    Like the rest of the public consortium, Baylor's gene-sequencing efforts
have grown exponentially since 1999, when it received an $ 80 million, five-year
grant with two other centers to complete the project. It now employs 235 people,
up from 60 just 15 months ago, and has completed the sequencing of 20 million
bases of DNA, which is roughly 7 percent of all human genomic data.

   Richard Gibbs, director of the Baylor center, compares the work to putting
together a map of the continent by piecing together millions of small,
overlapping aerial photos. The photos miss spots here and there and include
stretches of landscape, without well-defined landmarks, that make them
indistinguishable from each other. But the essential image is there.

   "More than anything, I think the announcement of the rough draft's completion
will be a relief," said Gibbs, a native Australian who came to Baylor in 1986
for a postdoctoral fellowship to study the molecular basis of X-linked genetic
disease. "It wasn't that long ago we still weren't sure we would be able to
sequence the genome. Now, I'm anxious to move on to the true completion of the
project. That's when the breakthroughs will follow."

   Indeed, just as the periodic table categorized the elements so chemists could
predict how they would react, so will the fully mapped genome provide the
medical community with dramatic insights into how the body works. Some of the
world's largest pharmaceutical firms already are using the partially completed
human genome to design drugs that target people's underlying genetic problems
instead of their generic symptoms. The more specifically drugs are targeted, the
more likely they are to work and the less likely they are to cause side effects.




    Years of research ahead


    Fast on the heels of new drugs should come genetic tests, which will warn
people they are at increased risk and give them the lifesaving opportunity to
take preventative medicine, initiate changes in diet or lifestyle or start a
program of regular checkups to watch for the first signs of disease, when it is
most curable.

   Still, it will take years of research to understand how human genes interact.
Help will come by comparing similar sequences in animals whose genes have
already been studied in detail, but the most useful creature for comparative
purposes, the mouse, is still about two years away from having its entire genome
sequenced. (Baylor is part of that project, too.) The fruit fly, worm, zebra
fish and some cattle will also be compared.

   Additionally, even in fortuitous circumstances it typically takes five to 10
years to bring new medications to the market. No one yet knows how difficult it
will be to target and remedy certain genetic malfunctions.

   The upshot is that Monday's announcement of the completion of the genome
rough draft will not change the world as we know it right away. Venter, for
example, emphasizes gradual change, predicting researchers still will be making
discoveries in the human genome 100 years from now, so complex and voluminous is
the data to analyze.

   "If people want to view the sequencing of the human genetic code as a race,
it's a race to the starting line," Venter said shortly after launching Celera.
"That's when the real work starts."




    What is the human genome?


    The genetic code that determines whether a person has brown or blue eyes -
and all the person's other inherited characteristics - lies in a long molecule,
DNA, that can duplicate itself with almost perfect accuracy.


    1 CELL


    Body contains about 100 trillion




    2 NUCLEUS


    One per cell




    3 CHROMOSOME


    Humans have 23 pairs




    4 DNA


    One long molecule making up chromosome


    A two-stranded spiral, the "double helix"

   3 billion base pairs




    5 GENE


    Segment of DNA that carries instructions


    A few thousand on each chromosome

   About 100,000 base pairs




    6 EST Expressed sequence tag


    Subunit of a gene


    Can be captured while cell works

   About 500 base pairs




    7 BASE PAIR


    Smallest unit of genetic code - a single chemical bridge between the DNA
strands

   Some inherited diseases are caused by a single abnormal base pair

















GRAPHIC: Photo: 1. Drs. Richard Gibbs, left, and George Weinstock head Baylor
College of Medicine's Human Gene Sequencing Center, one of five U.S.
laboratories whose efforts have enabled the public consortium to announce this
week that it has finished the rough draft of the human genome, the blueprint of
life. (color); Graph: 2. What is the human genome? (b/w, p. 16, text); 1. Kevin
Fujii / Chronicle, 2. Knight Ridder Tribune

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000


                             420 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times



                      June 25, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition

SECTION: Opinion; Part M; Page 2; Opinion Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION / MEDICINE;
 KEEP THE DOCTORS AND ENTREPRENEURS SEPARATE IN GENE TESTS

BYLINE: Douglas Starr, Douglas Starr, co-director of the Program in Science
Journalism at, Boston University, is the author of "Blood: An Epic History of
Medicine, and Commerce."

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:


   There's been a lot of concern lately about the safety of experiments
involving gene therapy. Shocked by the death of a young man who took part in a
gene-transfer experiment at the University of Pennsylvania last year, Congress
held hearings in which one expert after another urged stricter oversight of such
testing. A few weeks ago, Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala
proposed tough new standards, with fines of $ 1 million for institutions, and $
250,000 for individuals, that don't adequately protect participants in
gene-therapy research. In the wake of the bad publicity, scientists report
they're having trouble recruiting volunteers for gene-therapy research trials.

   It's no wonder people have become skeptical of gene-therapy work.
Researchers' credibility has been seriously eroded. But the source of the
erosion was not government, the media or the experimental nature of gene therapy
. The problems confronting this new technology are no different from those
facing conventional medical research: money, and its corrupting influence on
drug-related research.

   It wasn't always so. Medical researchers once considered themselves above the
profit motive. In 1954, for example, Jonas Salk, who developed the polio
vaccine, was asked who would control the patent. "There is no patent," he
replied incredulously. "Could you patent the sun?"

   Several developments have since created a world in which Salk's view seems
quaint. The first was the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which accelerates the transfer
of scientific discoveries from universities to the marketplace. The act allows
universities to claim patents on technologies they invented using federal
funding and urges them to cooperate with private industry to commercialize the
developments. The act is a boon to scientists, universities and industry.
Scientists no longer have to choose between academic prestige and industrial
money. Universities can retain their professors and attract new money as well.
Industry gains access to some of the country's brightest minds.

   Meanwhile, another development made medical research increasingly commercial:
the modern pharmaceutical boom. Since World War II, the drug industry has been
expanding, and by the 1980s and '90s, the basic research that had been going on
for decades yielded lucrative applications. The industry has entered an
explosive growth phase, producing many new drugs and profits to go with them.

   That, in turn, gave rise to yet another new enterprise: the big business of
testing new drugs on people. Before entering the marketplace, all new drugs
undergo clinical trials to ensure safety and efficacy. To conduct these trials,
drug companies pay medical centers, doctors and private companies to recruit
volunteers willing to take an experimental drug. This branch of the industry has
become a cash cow worth an estimated $ 3.3 billion a year.

   All these factors created today's big-money climate in which a company might
spend hundreds of millions of dollars to bring out a new drug. There's nothing
wrong with using private capital to develop and test drugs. But questions arise
when formerly independent researchers become too entangled in the business
aspects of their careers.

   The medical community knows several cases in which companies have influenced
the design of a trial, pressured investigators for certain results or suppressed
findings that criticized their product. Yet, despite the notoriety of these
cases, the entanglements continue. Earlier this month, the New England Journal
of Medicine, the world's most prestigious medical publication, printed a study
in which the authors praised a certain antidepressant. The journal has strict
financial-disclosure rules requiring all authors to list their links to the drug
industry. The authors of this study have so many drug-industry ties that the
journal had to list them on its Web page, because there was no room to print
them.

   In that same issue, outgoing editor Marcia Angell lamented the "Faustian
bargain" universities have struck with industry that forces them to cater to
commercial concerns. Ironically, the journal is replacing her with a doctor
who's had significant financial involvement with at least 21 pharmaceutical
companies. The new editor, Jeffrey Drazen, has since agreed to divest his
holdings.

   If we're concerned about the influence of money in medical studies, we should
seriously worry about its role in genetic research. This technology, based on
inserting new DNA into patients' cells, is a high-risk, high-payoff venture in
which a company's stock price can skyrocket or crash depending on the result of
a single trial, or even the rumor of a result. It attracts competitive,
hard-driving individuals, quick to patent their discoveries and set up their own
companies. It promises billions to those who can successfully bring a new drug
to market.

   Such an environment can also set the stage for sloppiness and abuse,
especially when researchers test their own drugs. Investigators who looked into
the death of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger at the University of Pennsylvania not
only found a pattern of slipshod procedures in informing and protecting
patients; they also learned that both the researcher, James M. Wilson, and the
university had a large financial interest in the therapy he was testing.

   The government has since halted genetic-therapy experiments at several
medical centers, including Duke University, St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in
Boston and St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Tennessee because of alleged
inadequate patient protection. At St. Elizabeth's, it alleged that the
researcher had not only failed to report certain side effects, but also had a
significant investment in the therapy he was testing.

   All that has led Shalala to propose new standards for patient protection and
require researchers to fully disclose their financial dealings. More needs to be
done.

   Currently, patients who take part in clinical trials must sign a document
giving their "informed consent" to the procedure. It's important not to simply
inform patients, but truly educate them. Patients need to understand what a
longshot genetic-therapy treatments represent. Of the 400 genetic-transfer
therapies tested on people since 1989, only 10% have even made it past basic
toxicity testing. Not one has become a licensed medicine.

   A firewall between researchers who test drugs and the money that sponsors
them must also be built. Disclosure is not enough. The only solution would be to
forbid doctors from having any financial stake in the therapies they're testing,
or at least strictly limit them. Harvard Medical School recently took such a
position when it refused to relax its strict financial guideline on
human-subjects research. Unfortunately, few other medical centers have done the
same.

   This isn't the first time that rules have had to be enacted to protect human
volunteers. No one can forget the infamous Tuskeegee syphilis study or the human
radiation experiments at the Department of Defense. Each incident taught us to
enact stricter protective measures for patients.

   This latest episode, while not as grievous, teaches new lessons about the
need to separate business from medicine. Making that separation may seem
contrary to innovation and the U.S. style of science. But it cannot be avoided.
Only then will patients who take part in clinical testing know that they've
placed themselves in the hands of a doctor, not in those of an entrepreneur.  *

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-DRAWING: (no caption), HENRIK DRESCHER / For The Times

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000


                             421 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 25, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Page 11; Column 1; Women's Health

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: PATIENT POWER;
For Experimental Treatments, 'Somebody Has to Be First'

BYLINE: By Denise Grady

BODY:

   LOOKING back, Alice Myhal says it was partly the doctor's enthusiasm that
helped her decide: she sensed an energy level as high as her own in Dr. Beth
Overmoyer, and it struck a chord. But religion had a role, too. Since providence
had brought her to Dr. Overmoyer just in time for a new, experimental treatment,
she thought she must be meant to try it.



    Then there were the bleak odds for women with her condition, inflammatory
breast cancer, an unusually aggressive type of cancer. Even with standard
treatment, patients have only a 25 to 45 percent chance of living 5 years. Ms.
Myhal, who is 45, hoped for more time. She had a teenage son and daughter, and
wanted a chance to see them grow up.

    So in April, Ms. Myhal became part of an experiment at the Ireland Cancer
Center at University Hospitals in Cleveland, a clinical trial testing standard
chemotherapy combined with SU5416, an anti-angiogenesis drug meant to kill
tumors by cutting off their blood supply. Dr. Overmoyer devised the trial, in
the hope that adding SU5416 to chemotherapy, followed by surgery and radiation,
would boost women's survival. The new drug had been shown to slow the progress
of advanced colon cancer, but it had never been given to anyone with
inflammatory breast cancer.

    "Somebody has to be first," Ms. Myhal said. "I felt sort of like the women
astronauts."

    She became one of the 40,000 to 45,000 cancer patients in the United States
- only 5 percent of all those with cancer - who brave, hopeful and sometimes
desperate, participate in clinical trials. These are experiments in which groups
of people, ususally matched for age and stage of illness, try a new drug or
procedure. More than 600 cancer trials are under way in the United States, as
well as several thousand more studies of other diseases.

    The trials usually have three phases, which can be summarized in three
questions: Is it safe? Does it work? Is it better than standard treatment?

    Phase I studies, like the one Ms. Myhal entered, are designed to determine
whether a new treatment is safe and what is the correct dosage of a drug.
Patients may sign up hoping for a cure, but the real mission of Phase I trials
is not to measure effectiveness. Not until Phase II are researchers supposed to
look for signs that the treatment works. In Phase III, the treatment is compared
with a usual therapy, or, if there is none, with a placebo.

    Like Ms. Myhal, many people find their way to clinical trials through their
doctors, particularly if they are being treated at major medical centers where
research is done. Others use the Internet or call organizations that specialize
in referring people to trials.

    Earlier this month, President Clinton said that he would sign an executive
order requiring Medicare to cover most of the costs of its patients in clinical
trials, which should help ease their access to experimental treatments.

    Not everyone can get into a trial, however. Patients usually have to be at
the exact stage of illjness speified by the experimental protocol, which are the
rules set up to ensure that subjects are similar enough to yield meaningful
results. Many trials also need people who have not been treated before, or who
have not taken certain drugs that might interfere with the experiment.

    The gold standard in research is the "random controlled trial," in which
patients are assigned ramdonly to one treatment group or another, with neither
patients nor experimenters told which group is which until the trial is
finished.

    Researchers consider clinical trials to be the backbone of medical progress.
They are the most reliable way to determine whether a new treatment works and is
safe, and they have led to improved therapy for cancer, AIDS, heart disease,
asthma, diabetes, mental illness and hundreds of other disorders. Most children
with cancer are treated in clinical trials, and cancer experts redit the high
cure rates to that practice.

    Dr. Overmoyer, who is the director of clinical trials in breast cancer at
the Ireland Center, said that offering clinical trials to patients was an
important mission of a major cancer center. "We like to make sure there's always
something new, something investigational, for everyone with breast cancer,
because we're not curing everyone," she said.

    At a conference on breast cancer in New York this month, Dr. Larry Norton,
head of the solid tumor oncology division at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, said, "Every advance we've made is from clinical trials." He added that
patients in trials often fared better than those not in trials, and he described
entering a trial as "actually a very smart thing for a patient to do."

   Not all doctors agree. Some, thinking clinical trials use people as guinea
pigs and therefore not worth the risks, do not encourage patients to
participate. Others want to retain control of patients' treatment themselves.

    For people who take part in studiesk there can be great advantages but also
great risks. On the positive side, trials can offer patients hope in the form of
a chance to try promising treatments not yet available to the public. That is a
powerful lure for people like Ms. Myhal, who have conditions for which the usual
treatment does not work well, or for which there is no standard treatment.
People in clinical trials often receive close medical monitoring, adn their
health care and medications are ususally paid for, at least in part, by the
company or the research institution sponsoring the trial.

    Many people who enter trials also find it heartening to think that even if
the treatment does not help them, doctors may learn something that will help
others.

    The potential drawbacks of being in a trial come from the fact that it is an
experiment, and researchers do not know whether the new treatment will be safe
and effective. Patients may be testing drugs or procedures never tried before in
humans; there is a risk of being harmed. And if there is no standard treatment
for an illness being studied, patients entering a trial may be assigned randomly
to a control group that is being given placebos, a prospect that many find
discouraging.

    Well-meaning doctors and hopeful patients may gloss over the primary mission
of a clinical trial, which is not to benefit particpants but to gather
information. Sick people in trials want to think of themselves as patients being
treated, rather than research subjects being experimented on, said George Annas,
the chairman of the health law department at the Boston University School of
Public Health. But the patients are, in fact, research subjects, he said.

    In properly designed trials, independent researchers monitor the data as
they accumulate so that the experiment can be halted if one group starts doing
signficantly better than the other. Of course, that means the other group is
doing worse, a determination that may not be made until a certain number of
participants suffer adverse effects, deteriorate or even die.

    People with severe illnesses are often willing to take considerable risks
for the chance to be cured. Dr. Christiaan Barnard, the South African heart
transplant pioneer, described his patients' circumstances in the early days of
transplanation as "lions or corcodiles": a person being chased by a lion to the
edge of a river would jump in and try to swim across even if the river was full
of crocodiles, but would never jump in if there were no lion.

    Some do make it to the other side, however. About a year ago, Mary Anna
Kralj-Pokerznik, a middle-school teacher in Edmonton, Alberta, heard about a
study at the University of Edmonton in which patients with Type 1 diabetes would
be given transplants of insulin-producing cells to try to cure the disease.
Patients with Type 1 diabetes make little or no insulin of their own, and must
take injections of the hormone several times a day to control their blood
surgar.

    Doctors had been trying such transplants for about 20 years, usually
failing. This time, the cells, taken from the pancreas of organ donors, would be
injected into the liver, and a new set of antirejection drugs would be used.
Risks included the possibility of damaging the liver and, from the antirejection
drugs, increased odds of infection and even certain cancers.

    But Mr. Kralj-Pokerznik, who is 30, had been idabetic for 20 years. She was
jabbing herself in the fingers 20 times a day to test her blood sugar, taking
insulin shots sixtimes a day and adhering to a rigid diet. Even so, she had
tremendous swings in sugar levels which often brought her close to passing out,
or left her feeling sick and lethargic.

    "The complications of diabetes - blindness, amputations, kidney failure,
cardiovascular - I knew that with my fluctuations, it was not a matter of if,
but of when," she said. "With this new therapy, being on low-dose antirejection
drugs, there are some risks. But they are maybes. The others were a given."

    In May 1999, Ms. Kralj-Pokerznik under-went the cell transplant, which was
performed by Dr James Shapiro, the leader of the university's transplant team.
She has been off insulin for a year, with no signs of diabetes.

    "It was hard to believe at first," she said. "It didn't seem real." She
revels in small, newfound freedoms: being able to take a walk whenever she feels
like it, no longer planning her days around a rigid schedule of meals and
snacks, shots and blood tests. She knows that the cells could fail or be
rejected, but, she said, "I am hopeful."

    The Edmonton team has successfully treated eight patients, and their
results, which will be published next month in The New England Journal of
Medicine, were posted on its Web site in June as an "early release," which the
journal reserves for studies of major import. Medical centers in this country
will try the new procedure probably later this year.

    Not every experiment goes as well. For instance, at a cancer conference in
May in New Orleans, Dr. Russell DeVore of Vanderbilt University in Nashville,
Tenn., reported that in a clinical trial, four lung cancer patients unexpectedly
began coughing up blood and died, possibly from an experimental drug, Rhumab.

    The public image of clinical triasl suffered greatly last year when Jesse
Gelsinger, an 18-year-old from tucson, died during a trial of gene therapy at
the University of Pennsylvania, from an infusion of gene-altered viruses meant
to correct an enzyme defiency. The defiency had been under control with diet, so
Mr. Gelsinger was not in the kind of desperate situation that might have
justified the experiment's risks.

    An investigation revealed that he and his parents had not been fully
informed of the dangers, and that Mr.Gelsinger had had some abnormal laboratory
tests suggesting that he should have not been injected with the viruses. Gene
therapy trials at the university were shut down.

    Dr. Overmoyer noted that highly publicized cases had made some patients wary
of clinical trials. "It is so disheartening on so many levels," she said. "It
breaks down the foundation of trust."

    At the Ireland Center, she said, "consent forms are very thorough, with
every type of risk, almost including alien vasion; they are quite scary."

    But Ms. Myhal did not hesitate to enroll. "I felt we were heading in the
right direction," she said.

    As predicted, the injections of SU5416 gave her cramps, headaches and some
swelling of the affected breast. Because the drug can affect blood vessels, she
is also being monitored closely for changes in blood clotting or in bleeding, as
well as for heart problems. But, she said, she is reassured by the concern ad
compassion of the nurses who are assisting with the study.

    After several rounds of treatment, she noticed that the tumor seemed to be
shrinking. "I think it's going to be all right," she said. "I don't think the
Lord would have presented this had it not been meant to be."

    She has become friendly with another woman in the study. They go to the
clinic at different times, but often leave notes for each another. "We're like
two girls in a capsule, but we're floating," Ms. Myhal said. "Hopefully, when we
get out of this we'll have time to do something together."


Where to Search for Trials

   VARIOUS searchable Internet sites offer extensive information about clinical
trials, including lists of studies and explanations of informed consent and the
different phases of trials and how they work. In some cases, information can
also be obtained by telephone.

   Actis.org gives information on clinical trials, specifically on AIDS; (800)
874-2572.

   cancertrials.nci.nih.gov provides information about clinical trials in
cancer. The National Cancer Institute also offers a Cancer Information Service,
which helps patients to locate trials. Telephone: 1-800-4-CANCER.

   www.CenterWatch.com, a division of the Medical Economics publishing company,
lists newly approved drugs and clinical trials for many diseases. It also offers
information on participating in clinical trials.

   ClinicalTrials.gov, introduced in February by the National Institutes of
Health, provides information on more than 4,400 federal and private studies of a
wide array of diseases at about 50,000 sites nationwide.

   www.nih.gov, the site of the National Institutes of Health, provides links to
member institutes, many of which provide clinical trial information on their
home pages. For example, www.nei.nih .gov, the site of the National Eye
Institute, lists clinical studies on eye disorders; click on "clinical studies
database"; (301) 496-5248.

   www.nimh.nih.gov, the site of the National Institute of Mental Health, gives
information on clinical trials for patients with mental disorders; (301)
443-4513.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alice Myhal, a breast-cancer patient at the Ireland Cancer
Center in Cleveland, is taking part in a clinical trial for SU5416, an
anti-angiogenesis drug.; Another participant in the Cleveland trial, Beverly
Young, is receiving her periodic dose of SU5416, which starves cancer tumors by
cutting off their blood supply. (Photographs by Barney Taxel for The New York
Times)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             422 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         JUNE 25, 2000 Sunday D EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: HUGE POTENTIAL FOR DNA MAP IT WILL TAKE DECADES TO EXPLORE THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE GROUPS' WORK.

BYLINE: Andrea Knox, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   With tomorrow's scheduled announcement that they have finished sequencing the
human genome, once-dueling scientists J. Craig Venter and Francis S. Collins
will mark the official beginning of a medical revolution.

   When the revolution is over, which could be many decades from now, scientists
will know exactly how a particular person will respond to a specific drug. They
will design drugs that zero in so specifically on the cause of a disease that
the drugs are extremely effective without causing side effects. They will be
able to replace or repair defective genes.

   That, at least, is what is promised.

   "The genome information will open so many new vistas that we can't even think
of all of them now," says Tauseef Butt, cofounder of LifeSensors Inc. in
Malvern, which is researching genes involved in diabetes, cancer and
cardiovascular disease.

   Scientists say that knowing the sequence of the 3.2 billion chemical pairs
that make up a strand of DNA is the most powerful tool ever for decoding the
mysteries of growth, health and disease.

   "It is a real milestone, a wonderful achievement, that will have an enormous
impact on biology and medicine for the next century. It will be an overwhelming
resource," said R. Michael Blaese, chief medical officer at ValiGen, in Newtown.
Blaese, a physician, is a world leader in gene therapy, the attempt to replace
or repair defective genes that cause disease.

   There are, however, no miracles just around the corner. Researchers such as
Tony Giordano, research vice president at Message Pharmaceuticals in Malvern,
expect "the real work over the next 10 years is to find out what it all means."

   Venter, the maverick scientist who runs the for-profit Celera Genomics Group,
expects it will take a century to wring all the secrets out of it.

   In a joint announcement set for 12:30 p.m. tomorrow in Washington, Venter is
set to join Collins, of the National Institutes of Health, and Ari Patrinos, of
the Department of Energy, to announce that usable - if not perfect - sequences
of the human genome have been completed.

   The NIH, the Department of Energy, and a British philanthropy, the Wellcome
Trust, are jointly funding the public project.

   Venter is expected to say that Celera, of Rockville, Md., has put in order
nearly 99 percent of the chemical pairs, which he is calling a first assembly.

   Collins and Patrinos are expected to announce that the publicly funded Human
Genome Project has put in order more than 90 percent of the genome, which they
are calling a working draft.

   Richard A. Gibbs of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, one of the five
major sequencing centers involved in the public project, said last week that the
public project's sequence will have fewer gaps than Venter's.

   And public project officials have frequently pointed out that their data is
freely available on the Internet to anyone - including both academic and
commercial researchers - who wants to work with it. The Web address for the data
is www.nhgri.nih.gov/Data/#mapping

   Celera, in contrast, will charge a fee of up to $15 million to commercial
interests such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that want to see
its sequence. In a recent interview, Venter said Celera will eventually let
academic researchers use its data at no charge, probably by the end the year.

   Venter announced in early April that his scientists had sequenced 99 percent
of the genome. But at that point, the sequenced DNA was in thousands of
fragments that needed to be assembled in the correct order to be useful. It is
that assembly that the company has now completed.

   Sequencing the human genome is considered so important there is already talk
of a Nobel Prize. Indeed, it is equal in stature to the Nobel-prize winning 1953
discovery of the double-helix structure of DNA, said Peter Goodfellow, senior
vice president of SmithKline Beecham PLC and director of the company's
drug-discovery efforts. The Nobel Prize committee could decide to give the award
to more than one researcher.

   And investors are not immune to the commercial potential. Since Celera was
spun off from PE Corp. in April 1999, its shares have gained 916 percent in
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The company had a 2-for-1 stock split in
February just before it raised an astonishing $1 billion in a secondary stock
offering. Its stock gained $7 Friday to close at $127 a share.

   For both science and business, the significance of the genome lies in its
ability to open up a new "big picture" about how things work, said Michael
Palazzolo, senior director of biosystems at biopharmaceutical company Amgen Inc.
in Thousand Oaks, Calif.

   Before the sequence was known, "you used to struggle to identify what the
genes were," working backward from finding a protein to finding the gene
associated with that protein.

   Having the sequence will make it easier to find the genes directly, and group
them by similar functions, he explained.

   "We are using it in drug development," said Palazzolo, whose company was the
first subscriber to Celera's database. "You can get additional information from
this. You can find new targets for drugs, and markers that correlate with
disease. There will be improved diagnostics."

   Researchers at many companies are working with a number of new technologies
that "you can only do when you have all the genes identified," Palazzolo said.

   However, knowing the order in which 3.2 billion pairs of chemical units are
arranged on each strand of DNA changes nothing by itself.

   It doesn't tell where the genes are located within the genome or which genes
make which proteins, the substances responsible for the growth, maintenance and
health of the body. It provides no map of the dance of the proteins as they join
and separate, appear and disappear, in a complex web of interactions that
control the functioning of the cells.

   All that remains to be understood in years to come.

   The Human Genome Project has five major sequencing centers: Baylor;
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass.; Washington University
in St. Louis; the Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute in Walnut Creek,
Calif.; and the Sanger Centre in Cambridge, England.

   Tomorrow's scheduled joint announcement is the culmination of a decade of
work by that project, accelerated in the last 14 months after Celera was formed
and Venter began to boast that he would finish the genome sequencing first.

   The sniping between the two teams included spats over money, with Venter
claiming he had spent only a fraction of what the public project had spent.

   In fact, of the $1.9 billion spent so far by the NIH, only about $250 million
has gone directly into sequencing the human genome, said NIH spokeswoman Cathy
Yarbrough. Much of the rest went to preparatory research, including developing
sequencing techniques and then doing trial runs by sequencing genomes of small
organisms. An additional $336 million has been committed to the public project
by the Wellcome Trust.

   Venter, who had worked at the NIH-sponsored Human Genome Project in its early
days, said Celera has spent at most $200 million so far.

   Another bone of contention was the NIH's refusal to fund Venter's idea for
what he called shotgun sequencing, which he said would be faster than the
mapping method NIH proposed to use.

   That method involved breaking the DNA into small bits, determining the
sequence of each bit, and then reassembling the whole thing. The NIH didn't see
how such reassembly could be done accurately; its technique was to carefully
plot big sections of DNA before breaking them apart, making it relatively
straightforward to put each bit back in place after it was sequenced.

   Indeed, Venter has acknowledged using data posted on the Internet by the
public project to help him complete his work.

   Last week, in a televised interview, Collins conceded that competition from
the private sector had speeded up the public work. The rivalry with Celera
"energized people" in the public project.

   But, Collins said, "If this were done solely in the private sector, . . .
there would be a strong disincentive to giving the information away."

   Collins lamented the continual focus on the race to completion. That "does a
disservice to the nobility of the enterprise . . . with all of its implications
for human health and who we are as human beings," he said.

   Venter, though, can't leave the idea of a race behind. He often speaks of the
thousands of people who die every year from cancer and other diseases, and the
need to find cures sooner rather than later. The name Celera comes from the
Latin, meaning "rapid," and his company's motto is "Speed matters."

   Andrea Knox's e-mail address is aknox@phillynews.com

   WHAT USE IS THE HUMAN GENOME? Scientists say knowing the full sequence of the
human genome will help them find genes that play crucial roles in disease.

   Researchers are also sequencing the genomes of other organisms. The mouse and
fruit fly genomes will be compared with the human genome to help identify the
functions of genes.

   This is expected to lead to:

   * Gene replacement or repair techniques to cure hereditary diseases.

   * New drugs that inhibit specific disease-causing genes or promote
disease-fighting genes.

   * Drugs with fewer side effects.

   * Personal genetic profiles showing which treatments would work best for each
individual.

   Scientists caution that it could be years or decades before such advances are
realized.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             423 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 25, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: GENETIC ARTIST WITH AN EDGE;
WILLIAM HASELTINE SNEERS AT GENOME PROJECT, EMPHASIZES NEW DRUGS

BYLINE: BYRON SPICE

BODY:


   Wearing a ruffled shirt and a bow in his hair, Luis Egidio Melendez holds a
paintbrush in his right hand and a sketch of a man in his left. Garbed in a
business suit with his thinning black hair slicked back, William Haseltine holds
a pen in his left hand and a chart of human proteins in his right.

   These images -- a 1746 self-portrait by the Spanish painter and a photo of
the biochemist -- are juxtaposed in the annual report of Haseltine's company,
Human Genome Sciences.

   The symbolism isn't hard to grasp. Haseltine is redrawing the human body, one
protein at a time. And Haseltine, a man not noted for his modesty, no doubt
savors the biochemist-as-artist analogy.

   "There's a new medicine being born under everyone's eyes," said Haseltine,
speaking in a calm, soft voice at his Rockville, Md., headquarters. The source
of what he calls "regenerative medicine" is brewing in fermentation tanks on the
floor below: natural proteins, including hormones and antibodies, that will help
the body heal itself or compensate for deficits.

   Think of what insulin has done for diabetics and imagine that approach being
applied to afflictions ranging from bedsores to osteoporosis, from high blood
pressure to lymphoma.

   It's all made possible by the ability to discover genes, identify the
proteins they make and then find how the body uses those proteins. In 20 years,
Haseltine predicts, half of all medicines will be proteins, hormones and
antibodies that strengthen muscles, thicken skin and repair nerves.

   Peering through wire-rimmed glasses, Haseltine takes a dim view of the Human
Genome Project, of which Human Genome Sciences is a spinoff. "Techno-folly" is
how he describes the quest to map and sequence all of the human genes.

   Completing the genome project, he said, "will have a marginal impact on what
we do and it will have a marginal impact on the pharmaceutical industry." Most
of the DNA in the genome is junk, he argues, and doesn't mean a thing. The
crucial part of the genome is the tiny fraction of DNA that comprises the genes,
and he claims that his company already has identified most human genes.

   The Human Genome Project, he says, may be like putting a human on the moon:
"Quite an achievement, but what does that let you do?" The practical
applications of the Apollo program were nil, he said, in contrast to military
and spy satellites, which helped spawn the global telecommunications network.

   "What transforms life? Going to the moon, or being able to make a cell phone
call?"

   Keeping secrets

   That kind of talk irritates geneticists such as Aravinda Chakravarti of Case
Western Reserve University, who led development of the Human Genome Project's
latest five-year plan. "I wish him well, since if he succeeds that is good news
for all of us consumers," Chakravarti said. But he's leery of many of
Haseltine's claims, noting that many are based on data that have yet to be
published.

   Chakravarti, who specializes in the genetics of complex diseases such as
hypertension, maintains that the approach that he and his colleagues have taken
is sound -- that understanding the mechanisms of disease will eventually lead to
better treatments.

   "I cannot fruitfully disagree with Bill Haseltine because I publish my data
and discuss my ideas along with all of my colleagues in the scientific
community," Chakravarti said. "He does not."

   Haseltine, 55, hobnobs in celebrity circles in Washington, D.C., and New York
with his glamorous wife, Gale Hayman, a former model who runs a New York
cosmetics company and developed the fragrance known as "Giorgio."

   But his roots are in the California desert, where his father was a physicist
at the Naval Weapons Center at China Lake, and much of his life has been spent
in the lab. In graduate school at Harvard University, he worked in the labs of
James Watson, who won the Nobel prize in 1962 for discovering DNA's molecular
structure, and Walter Gilbert, who won the prize in 1980 for developing a method
for sequencing DNA.

   He stayed at Harvard for 17 years after earning his doctorate in biophysics,
performing cancer and AIDS research at Dana-Farber Cancer Center in Boston. He
collaborated with Robert Gallo of the National Institutes of Health to develop
the theory that AIDS is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus, and he was
the first to sequence HIV.

   Then, in 1992, J. Craig Venter, a National Institutes of Health scientist
involved in the Human Genome Project, persuaded Haseltine to go into business
with him. Human Genome Sciences was the result.

   Finding active genes

   Venter had developed a scheme for rapidly identifying "expressed" genes.

   Though the genome contains thousands and thousands of genes, only some are
expressed -- actively functioning -- in any given cell. Some cells express the
genes for producing insulin, for instance, while others express the gene for
producing a brain chemical such as dopamine.

   Venter planned to identify these expressed genes by looking for messenger RNA
-- the molecule that helps the gene produce a working protein. There would be no
need to figure out the sequence of the entire gene, which includes material not
directly involved in protein production. To make pharmaceuticals, they only
needed the machinery for producing the protein.

   "He was right," Haseltine said. Using their highly automated process, Venter
was able to identify thousands of genes and Haseltine was able to figure out
what they did. By 1996, they had found virtually every human gene, he contended.
"The technology worked much better than we thought it would."

   In fact, Haseltine contends, the success of their technique has upset his old
colleagues in academia, who he claims are all but obsolete. "Scientists are now
being replaced by machines," just as surely as typewriters have been replaced by
computers. "People said this would never happen ... We've created assembly lines
to produce knowledge," and the cottage industry of academia simply can't
compete.

   Not long after discovering the gene identification technology, though, the
interests of Venter and Haseltine diverged. Venter left in 1997 to create the
nonprofit Institute for Genome Research and, later, the for-profit Celera
Genomics, an information services company that is independently sequencing the
genome. Haseltine focused on using his company's genetic resources to develop
pharmaceuticals.

   Haseltine said the company has focused its attention on those genes with the
most pharmaceutical potential -- a subset of genes that makes about 15,000
secretory proteins. These are proteins that send signals to cells to grow and
divide, move or commit suicide.

   To figure out which ones might have therapeutic potential, the company has
created systems that make it possible to test a cell culture against 10,000 to
15,000 of these signaling proteins at once, measuring 200 ways that the cells
can respond to each of the proteins.

   A healing protein

   One protein, for instance, was found to induce healing in skin and mucosal
cells that had been damaged, but had no effect on healthy cells. Dubbed keratin
growth factor 2, or KGF-2, it is the most advanced of the Human Genome Sciences
drugs now in clinical trials. In late May, company officials announced that
KGF-2 had proven safe and effective in a 94-patient trial on treating chronic
venous ulcers -- large wounds that form where blood pools in the legs, often
near varicose veins.

   The same drug might be used to treat bedsores, burns and diabetic ulcers,
Haseltine said. Clinical trials are being conducted now to test its
effectiveness in treating burns to the mouth and intestines caused by
chemotherapy taken by bone marrow transplant recipients. Other trials may start
soon to test it for treating ulcerative colitis, a disease in which the
intestines become inflamed, causing diarrhea, cramps and fever.

   Another promising product identified through this testing is B-lymphocyte
stimulator, or BLS, which was found to increase the activity of disease-fighting
white blood cells called lymphocytes. BLS might be used to boost antibody
production in the elderly, in AIDS patients and patients recovering from
chemotherapy and organ transplants, Haseltine said. Trials could begin this
summer.

   And, by coupling BLS with a radioactive isotope or toxin, he added, the
company may be able to use the protein to treat B-cell tumors, such as multiple
myeloma and B-cell lymphoma.

   Conversely, designing an antibody to attack BLS might provide a way to dampen
the immune system, providing treatments for diseases such as lupus and
rheumatoid arthritis, in which people's immune systems attack their own tissues.

   The same automated system of discovery, Haseltine said, has found a brain
chemical that affects the desire to eat and to sleep. This might lead to
treatments for obesity and narcolepsy, he added.

   These proteins aren't as convenient as a pill; for now, they must be sprayed,
injected or inhaled. And though they are natural, they can have side effects.
Following a patient death, the Food and Drug Administration this spring halted
clinical trials by Vascular Genetics, a company that had licensed one of Human
Genome Science's discoveries to treat heart disease by gene therapy.

   No Human Genome Sciences drug has made it to market yet, but Haseltine says
this process -- discovering a gene, isolating its protein product and then
finding how the protein is used -- will speed pharmaceutical development.

   And displaying the acid edge he is known for, Haseltine concludes that using
the exploding wealth of genetic information to produce drugs is far better than
using it to devise genetic tests to tell whether someone has a condition or is
susceptible to it.

   Genetic tests, he said, make both doctors and patients uncomfortable. They
often provide too much information, such as predicting increased risk of cancers
and other diseases, without necessarily giving patients an opportunity to do
much about it.

   "The questions that geneticists ask are not helpful for medicine," he said
bluntly. "They ask why things happen. But why doesn't necessarily tell you what
to do. Our focus is on what you do about a disease."

   READING THE BOOK OF LIFE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette: William Haseltine of Human
Genome; Sciences in a protein discovery laboratory at his company.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000


                             424 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                       June 25, 2000 Sunday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: UNLOCKING THE GENE OFFERS A KEY BUT NO CURES;
CYSTIC FIBROSIS VEXES SCIENTISTS, YEARS AFTER ITS CAUSE WAS FOUND

BYLINE: By JOHN MANGELS; PLAIN DEALER SCIENCE WRITER

BODY:

   Teams of competing scientists are poised to announce tomorrow that they have
completed the medical equivalent of the moon landing - decoding all of the
genetic material that goes into building a human being.

   News conferences by government researchers and their rivals at a commercial
genetics firm are expected to reveal that both groups have finished a working
draft of the chemical blueprint in all of our cells that dictates everything
from the way we look to how we live and die.

   The 10-year Human Genome Project has involved thousands of scientists and
some of the most powerful computers ever assembled. It has cost more than $3
billion.

   Now that the work is done, it's easy to believe that new treatments and even
cures for gene-caused diseases are just around the corner.

   There is no doubt the Human Genome Project eventually will produce big
payoffs for patients.

   But researchers caution that, just as Neil Armstrong's first dusty steps on
the moon didn't immediately enable us to colonize the heavens, exploitation of
the wealth of genetic material will take time. Knowing what a gene's components
are and where to find them on the endless, twisting strands of our DNA is a long
way from understanding how those genes work and how to fix them when they
falter. Often, the answers raise more questions, scientists say.

   A case in point - cystic fibrosis.

   The single gene whose failure causes this fatal disease of mucous-choked
lungs was discovered and deciphered 11 years ago, in a miniature version of the
just-completed Genome Project. Although researchers say that knowledge of the
gene has resulted in a much better understanding of what happens in cystic
fibrosis and some ways to affect the process, there have been no breakthrough
treatments yet.

   "That was the hope - we'd find the gene, and that would get us through the
bottleneck," said Mitchell Drumm, a geneticist at the Case Western Reserve
University School of Medicine.

   As a graduate student, Drumm was part of the international team that for
months painstakingly combed through a million bits of genetic material on
Chromosome 7 until finally locating the cystic fibrosis gene in 1989.

   "Ten years isn't all that long in terms of the research process, but it's
half the life span of a CF patient," Drumm said. "That's frustrating. We really
understand how ignorant we were before about what was happening at the molecular
level."

   Defective gene

   Genes are recipe books that hold the instructions for making proteins, the
workhorses of the body. The gene that causes cystic fibrosis is supposed to make
a protein that manages the movement of salt components into and out of the cells
that line the lungs, pancreas and intestinal tract. The salt components, sodium
and chloride, in turn dictate the flow of water.

   The defective cystic fibrosis gene starts a cascade of problems. It makes a
faulty protein, which then can't direct the conveyor belt that moves chloride
out of cells. Chloride builds up and combines with sodium to form salt, causing
the cells to suck water from their surroundings to try to restore a balance.

   The water gets pulled from mucous that normally coats the lining of the
breathing passages and the gut. The mucous becomes thick and sticky. It clogs
the lungs and traps bacteria that cause repeated infections. And it blocks the
pancreas, preventing digestive chemicals from getting to the intestines where
they are needed to break down food.

   Cystic fibrosis patients used to die in childhood from malnourishment. As
doctors have gotten better at treating the digestive problems, patients now
typically live until their late 20s but eventually succumb to lung infection and
damage.

   Dr. Pamela Davis remembers the elation she felt when word came that the
cystic fibrosis gene had been identified. As chief of the division of pediatric
pulmonary disease at Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital and co-director of
University Hospitals' Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center, Davis had grown close to her
patients and their families. And she had seen the survival curve that had risen
so dramatically from the 1960s to the'80s flatten out as treatments reached
their limits.

   Patients just couldn't live much past their late 20s without breakthroughs.

   "God was trying to tell us we had gone as far as we could go," Davis said.
"Having the gene was tremendous. It was tremendous excitement. Now we had a key.
We were all naive and hopeful."

   The attitude was "who cares about chloride transport? Let's do gene therapy."

   No easy fixes

   That idea - to replace the faulty gene with one that works properly - sounds
like a simple, ideal solution. Although cystic fibrosis genes are in virtually
every cell in the body, the ones that really need to be fixed are those lining
the airway passages - an easy place to reach with inhaled medication.

   But that's about the only thing that has proved easy in cystic fibrosis gene
therapy, researchers say. For one thing, airway cells regularly die and are
replaced, so any fix of the bad gene they contain wouldn't be permanent. It
would have to be repeated, and scientists don't yet know how often. Correcting
the gene in the "parent" cells that spawn all airway cells would be a better
solution, but those haven't been found yet. Gene fixes would have to be done
early in a patient's life, too, because the lung damage from repeated infections
soon becomes irreversible.

   Another difficulty is how to get the corrected gene into patients' cells.
Like the perfect furniture mover, the carrier has to be big enough to
accommodate the hefty chunk of genetic material, stealthy enough to get past the
body's defense system and precise enough to deliver the gene to the right
position on the chromosome so it can work properly.

   "This is not a trivial problem," Davis said, in part because repeated lung
infections have revved up patients' immune systems.

   They are especially sensitive to invaders, even beneficial ones.

   Tests of several types of gene carriers, such as tamed viruses and tiny fat
capsules, are under way in a small number of patients to determine their safety
and effectiveness. The studies will take several years to complete.

   Gene therapy "has got to work," Davis said. "We're just not smart enough to
do it yet."

   Meanwhile, Drumm and other researchers are looking at ways of boosting the
ability of the faulty conveyor-belt protein to move chloride out of cells and
getting other cellular transport machinery to take over some of the work.

   All of that research has been helped along by the unraveling of the cystic
fibrosis gene in 1989, but progress has been gradual. And the disease is caused
by only one flawed gene. Many other diseases involve multiple genetic defects
that will each have to be dealt with.

   "It has taken us a decade to exploit the gene, but the puzzle pieces are on
the table now," said Dr. Preston Campbell, executive vice president for medical
affairs of the National Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. "We have the blueprint for
the disease. I think I was overly optimistic when the gene was discovered. My
unbridled optimism was tempered by the magnitude of the problem and the
knowledge we had to gain. Now we're ready to move on. I'm very optimistic
today."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 1; Drumm; PHOTO 2; Davis

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000


                             425 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                     June 25, 2000 Sunday, EAST NEW ORLEANS

SECTION: PICAYUNE; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: GROUP USES 4 PROGRAMS TO FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS

BYLINE: By JANE PIC

BODY:

   The March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation serves to inform people about the
potential problems and risks of birth defects. Through intensive fund-raising
efforts nationwide, March of Dimes has taken the issue of birth defects to the
community, and through advocacy and instruction, it has heightened the awareness
of birth defects.

   Locally, the March of Dimes Regional Chapter in New Orleans has been very
active in raising thousands of dollars through special events to further its
mission to improve the health of babies by preventing birth defects and infant
mortality. Four programs are offered: community services, advocacy, education
and research.

   Areas of interest for which information is available include:

   - Pre-pregnancy, including information on pregnancy planning, pregnancy after
the age of 30, stress and pregnancy, and teen-age pregnancy.

   - Prenatal care, which covers fetal development and a monthly diary about how
a baby grows.

   - Nutrition and fitness.

   - Prenatal testing, including information about potential problems and risks
for birth defects, testing for genetic traits, and gene therapy.

   - Illnesses during pregnancy.

   - Sexually-transmitted diseases during pregnancy, including HIV infection and
AIDS.

   - Substance abuse during pregnancy, including alcohol and cocaine use.

   - Smoking and pregnancy.

   - Giving birth, understanding Cesarean birth and preventing preterm labor.

   - Postnatal child care, information about newborn care and screening tests,
and the important of vaccinating your child.

   - Polio.

   The local March of Dimes Regional Chapter office is at 818 Howard Ave. in New
Orleans. For information on how to getinvolved, call Pam Cooper at 522-0865.

   Upcoming events include a Fantasy Night Auction on Sept. 15 that will honor
20 of the most eligible singles in the area, and a Gourmet Gala and Auction on
Nov. 19.

   - - - - - -

   The National Information Center for Children and Youth With Disabilities has
many publications that may be of interest. Some of the new publications issued
are: "Reading and Learning Disabilities," "Your Child's Evaluation," "A
Student's Guide to Jobs," "Questions Often Asked by Parents About Special
Education Services," and "Resources for Adults With Disabilities."

   There is a catalog of all publications that can be ordered. Check the Web
site at www.nichcy.org. There is no charge for the first copy of each
publication ordered.

   - - - - - -

   Jane Pic, development and public relations coordinator for the Arc of Greater
New Orleans, writes about issues of interest to people with disabilities. Write
to her at P.O. Box 9062, Metairie, LA 70055-9062.

COLUMN: A STEP UP

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000


                             426 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 The Detroit News
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Detroit News

                     June 24, 2000 Saturday No dot Edition

SECTION: HOMESTYLE; Dr. Andrew Gawronsky and his wife, Harriet, moved from
Florida to the Heritage in Southfield to be closer to their daughter. They love
all the organized activities.Contemporary furnishings appeal to today's seniors,
decorator Mark Morganroth says, because the objects are exciting and fresh, and
reflect an optimistic attitude toward life.Marion Cartwright recently moved to a
studio apartment in the Heritage, similar to the model shown here, which is
furnished with a leather sofa, a stylish screen/divider and a bistro table and
chairs.Universal design is important in designing spaces for seniors. The
toilet, for example, is higher than standard and there is space for a
wheelchair.; Pg. 16D

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Seniors savor the good life;
Easy living and lots of style make this Southfield retirement center a joy for
residents

BYLINE: Marge Colborn

BODY:

   SOUTHFIELD -- When the residents of the Heritage, a senior living community
in Southfield, return from a trip to Detroit's casinos, they undergo a shirt
check.

   "We want to know if they lost all their money as well as their shirts at the
casino," quips Lin Berry, Heritage's cheerful marketing director, who recently
helped with outings to the Van Gogh exhibit at the Detroit Institute of Arts and
a theater trip to Stratford.

   The image of senior citizens, or mature spenders as they are increasingly
being called, is rapidly changing, and so is how they live out their golden
years. New independent and assisted living complexes -- don't call them
retirement villages and don't even think rocking chairs -- are sprouting up
throughout Metro Detroit. The complexes attract seniors 62 and older who may or
may not need special care but certainly don't need the burden of home
maintenance. The phenomenon is being fueled, too, by busy, two-income baby
boomer couples searching for a fully appointed place for their aging parents to
live close to their grandchildren.

   National developers are major players in the trend, including Brookdale
Living Communities of Chicago, which built the Heritage, a new luxury senior
residence containing 218 studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments and a host of
amenities (pool, hair salon, theater, library, bank, putting green). Brookdale
has 29 such facilities nationwide.

   Two designer-decorated apartments and several residents' apartments at the
Heritage will be open July 9 and 10 during Heritage on Parade for Hadassah.

   Proceeds from the tour will aid the Greater Detroit Chapter of Hadassah and
the Goldyne Savad Institute of Gene Therapy. (See box on opposite page.)

   Mark Morganroth of Sherwood Studios in West Bloomfield Township and his chief
decorator, Susan Edwards, designed a studio and one-bedroom apartment for the
benefit. In two weeks time, they stylishly transformed empty spaces and,
contrary to how tradition might dictate seniors should live, they used
contemporary furniture, eclectic accessories and vivid colors.

   "We find that seniors like contemporary furniture and fun accessories," says
Morganroth, whose studio routinely designs custom furniture. "They see those
furnishings in their children's homes and want it for themselves -- it's bright,
lively, fresh and exciting, and helps to reflect their optimistic attitude that
tomorrow is another wonderful day."

   In the one-bedroom unit, for instance, Morganroth installed a modern, curvy
entertainment unit made of a light natural wood and bright red Vitracore, a
clear plasticlike material that resembles glass but is stronger. Seating
consists of a chic black sofa and matching loveseat. The dinner table and chairs
are made of polished pewter. And, in the bedroom, there's a sleek, low-slung,
king-size Italian bed with two matching nightstands.

   Accessories include a whimsical hand-painted chair by local artist Patty
Tapper and a colorful, abstract Oriental Lacquer relief made in Hong Kong.

   While the studio apartment is monochromatic, it too is young at heart with
almond-colored leather seating, blond wood furniture and a glass and brushed
steel TV/VCR stand.

   At the windows in both apartments are miniblinds with simple fabric cornices
that don't collect dust.

   "The key to decorating for seniors is to keep everything user-friendly,
comfortable and relaxed," says Morganroth. "Furnishings should be easy-
maintenance and soil-resistant, carpets should be low to accommodate walkers and
wheelchairs, seating should be firm and a little higher than usual and bedding a
little lower."

   Televisions, he says, should be prominently displayed because they are, in
many cases, a senior's link to the outside world.

   The Heritage, like other senior residences, was constructed with universal
design principles. Many of those principles are showing up in new construction,
regardless of who lives in it. Those principles include the use of open spaces,
electrical wall outlets in easy reach, elevated toilets, multilevel countertops,
handsome grab railings in elevators and hallways, wide doorways, extra lighting,
barrier-free entrances, cabinetry with pull-out shelves and curbless showers
with grab bars.

   So what do the Heritage's new residents think of these decorated spaces and
their new home?

   Dr. Andrew Gawronsky, a psychotherapist, and his wife, Harriet, agree that
"there are plenty of ideas to lift" from the apartments.

   "It makes me want to throw out what I have and start from scratch," says
Harriet Gawronsky, who left a big house in Florida to move to Michigan and a
one-bedroom Heritage apartment and be closer to her daughter. The couple have
four children and seven grandchildren.

   Marion Cartwright, 74, is retired from a corporate communications career at
Ameritech and last month, moved to the Heritage. Although she had enough
furniture to fill the Manoogian mansion and was accustomed to being footloose
and fancy-free, a closed-head injury convinced her to move to the Heritage,
which has a 24-hour emergency response system and a geriatric physician and
nurse on duty.

   "I can just pull a cord if I need help," says Cartwright, who moved into a
studio apartment. Sharp as a tack, Cartwright still drives her nearby
grandchildren to activities and is hooked on the Internet. (The Heritage has
Internet facilities in the library.)

   "I pared down my belongings," says Cartwright, matter of factly. "I have a
daybed now and an entertainment center for my TV, books and tapes, and I have a
kitchen window, which looks out on a pond with ducks. It's like living on golden
pond (a reference to the movie starring Henry Fonda and Katharine Hepburn)."

   Although all the Heritage units have kitchens, a meal plan is included in
monthly costs (prices range from $1,875 for a studio to $3,400 for a two-bedroom
apartment). Cartwright, who never took a liking to cooking, appreciates the
meals, especially a recent salmon-and-eggplant entree, which she heard touted on
ABC's Good Morning America as a good meal to bring out the glow in a person's
face.

   "We find that our gentlemen seniors like the studio apartments," says Lin
Berry, adding that there are 32 floor plans from which to choose.

   "But we'll also customize apartments, combining two, for example, at no extra
charge, for anyone who wants a larger space," Berry says.

   Berry believes the Heritage is one of the best-kept secrets in senior
residence communities in Oakland County what with its country club atmosphere,
Ritz Carlton-caliber dining facility (a choice of six entrees daily, home-made
desserts) and scrupulous attention to residents.

   "Our motto is: Promise less, deliver more," she says.

   Everyone, regardless of age, can appreciate that sentiment.

   Details on the benefit

   * What: The Heritage on Parade for Hadassah, a showcase of decorator
apartments presented by the Greater Detroit Chapter of Hadassah in partnership
for the Goldyne Savad Institute of Gene Therapy.

   * Where: The Heritage of Southfield, a senior residence community at 25800 W.
11 Mile, Southfield.

   * When: The Premier Benefit Dinner with cocktails, hors d'oeuvres and gourmet
buffet dinner as well as music by Tony Russo and his orchestra is 5-9 p.m., July
9. The Community Open House with fine food and entertainment is 11 a.m.-4 p.m.,
July 10.

   * Tickets: $30 for the July 9 event. $10 for the July 10 event.

   * Information: (248) 208-9393.

   Finding information

   Senior residence communities are sprouting up throughout Metro Detroit.
Prices and amenities vary by complex and type of living arrangement (independent
or assisted) requested. Here's a list of developers involved in senior centers
in our area:

   * Brookdale Living Communities of Chicago owns the Heritage in Southfield,
(248) 208-9393, or visit www.brookdaleliving.com.

   * Regent Street Inc. of West Bloomfield Township, (248) 683-1010. Contact
Renee Mahler.

   * Singh Development Co. Ltd. of Farmington Hills owns Waltonwood, Royal Oak,
(248) 549-6400, and other communities in Rochester Hills, Canton Township and
Novi.

   * P.M. Group Inc. of Brighton built Independence Village in Plymouth, (734)
453-2600, and other centers in Brighton, Petoskey, Midland and Grand Ledge.

   * Marriott Senior Living Services, a unit of Marriott International Inc.,
owns Brighton Gardens by Marriott in Plymouth, (734) 420-7917.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002


                             427 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            June 24, 2000, Saturday

SECTION: NEWS;Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Scientists giddy at milestone in genetic mapping

BYLINE: Jeff Ristine; STAFF WRITER

BODY:
 After a decade of research, next week brings a milestone in unraveling the
human genetic blueprint that is sending San Diego's scientific community into a
state of bliss.

   An announcement of the completion of a "working draft" of the human genome is
expected as early as Monday, possibly in a White House ceremony with leaders of
separate public and private efforts.

   The Human Genome Project is the biggest undertaking ever by biologists, a
worldwide endeavor to place 3 billion DNA bases in the right order and make the
information available to scientists seeking to diagnose, treat and prevent
disease.

   The long-anticipated announcement was held up by a dispute, now resolved,
between representatives of the academic effort, sponsored in part by the U.S.
government, and Celera Genomics Inc. of Rockville, Md., a biotechnology company
headed by a former UC San Diego faculty member.

   The genome achievement represents a biomedical revolution for researchers
like Steve Kay, a Scripps Research Institute geneticist who is eager to hunt for
genes that tie into his work on inherited sleep disorders.

   "We already have a small handful of these genes we know are the cogs of the
biological clock" regulating sleep/wake cycles, Kay said.  "We've got some idea
of what the rest of the cogs should look like.  We're actually going to go and
be able to find some of them based on their similarity to existing cogs."

   For Kay, the expected announcement next week that the Human Genome Project is
largely finished is "unbelievably exciting.  In fact, it makes me lose sleep,
that's how exciting it is."

   Kay isn't the only scientist talking as if everything is about to change.

   In a commencement address at the UC San Diego School of Medicine this month,
Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Human Genome Research Institute,
told graduates to expect to be surrounded by new insights in medicine.

   "Having this instruction book for human biology ... laid out in front of us
will greatly catapult us forward in understanding the causes of virtually all
complex, common disorders," Collins said, "and ... being able to prevent and
cure those diseases with approaches that right now we cannot imagine.

   "That is going to happen during your careers, in fact I would say fairly
early," said Collins, whose organization heads the international Human Genome
Project for the National Institutes of Health.

   Although 90 percent of the project, begun a decade ago, has been completed,
there's more work to be done.

   Ultimately, scientists intend to identify all the genes in human DNA as a way
of better understanding biological processes at the molecular level.  Genes are
the fundamental units of heredity; DNA is the double-stranded molecule that
encodes genetic information in chemical building blocks called nucleotides,
designated by the letters A, T, C and G.

   The project, which has cost the U.S. government more than $315 million, aims
to determine the precise sequence of the 3 billion chemical letters in the human
genome, the term for all of the DNA in an organism.

   The "working draft" wasn't contemplated as the finish line.  It has gaps and
errors that are expected to be filled and corrected over the next three years.

   San Diego scientists see even an incomplete draft as cause for celebration,
however, because it presents a wealth of information on the genome, including
previously unknown genes.

   Among those surprised by how fast the work has gone is John Wooley, associate
vice chancellor for research at UCSD, who was involved in early phases of the
Human Genome Project as an official at the U.S. Department of Energy.

   "The technology changed, the instrumentation improved," said Wooley, who
called the pace of the work extraordinary.

   "This is really a revolutionary step for biology," Wooley said.  "This is the
equivalent of getting the structure of the atom, of getting the periodic table."

   Excruciatingly detailed biochemical and molecular analysis of particular
genes will help (as it already has in many cases) determine how an individual
gene can lead to an inherited disease or risk for disease.

   Richard Firtel, director of UC San Diego's Center for Molecular Genetics,
said that in trying to draw comparisons between the genetic makeup of humans and
other organisms, "the issue has always been whether we're missing something
because the (human) genome is complete."

   When that obstacle is lifted, Firtel said, researchers will "delve in and
understand what type of genes are there, and be able to start mapping human
genetic defects in even more detail, so we can understand the molecular or
biochemical basis of these diseases."

   "Is it this gene?  Is it this gene?  Which gene makes sense?  Then you can go
and start doing the more detailed analysis to find out what's wrong."

   It is enormously complicated work, and even the most enthusiastic researchers
say there's no reason to expect genetic-based cures to be announced anytime
soon.

   Dr. Theodore Friedmann, director of the program in human gene therapy at the
UCSD School of Medicine, noted that researchers developed a molecular
understanding of sickle-cell diseases more than 40 years ago, yet the main
treatments today still address "symptomatic things" with hydration, bed rest and
antibiotics.

   Still, there's no question the Human Genome Project is about to achieve a
"huge technical advance," said Friedmann, comparing the work to pictures from
the Hubble Space Telescope in which discoveries are made only after meticulous
analysis.

   "Everybody needs to understand how difficult this all is and how long-term it
is," he said.  "Applications for human well-being are certainly going to come.
Some will come fairly quick but most will come in the very long term, and we
ought to quietly get on and do it."

   Susan Taylor, a protein chemist and head of the Research Council for the UCSD
medical school, said that when the genome project was conceived 10 years ago,
even many researchers "really didn't have a concept of the impact it would
have."

   With a blueprint for the entire human genome, Taylor said, doctors will have
an opportunity to prescribe drugs based on the individual genotype of their
patient, using inhibitors to the troublesome protein that is coded for by a
particular gene.


GRAPHIC: 1 PIC; Associated Press; Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National
Human Genome Research Institute (left), and J. Craig Venter, head of Celera
Genomics, spoke to reporters this month. (A-18)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000


                             428 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             June 24, 2000 Saturday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Scientists giddy at milestone in genetic mapping

BYLINE: Jeff Ristine, STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   After a decade of research, next week brings a milestone in unraveling the
human genetic blueprint that is sending San Diego's scientific community into a
state of bliss. An announcement of the completion of a "working draft" of the
human genome is expected as early as Monday, possibly in a White House ceremony
with leaders of separate public and private efforts. The Human Genome Project is
the biggest undertaking ever by biologists, a worldwide endeavor to place 3
billion DNA bases in the right order and make the information available to
scientists seeking to diagnose, treat and prevent disease. The long-anticipated
announcement was held up by a dispute, now resolved, between representatives of
the academic effort, sponsored in part by the U.S. government, and Celera
Genomics Inc. of Rockville, Md., a biotechnology company headed by a former UC
San Diego faculty member. The genome achievement represents a biomedical
revolution for researchers like Steve Kay, a Scripps Research Institute
geneticist who is eager to hunt for genes that tie into his work on inherited
sleep disorders. "We already have a small handful of these genes we know are the
cogs of the biological clock" regulating sleep/wake cycles, Kay said.

   "We've got some idea of what the rest of the cogs should look like.

   We're actually going to go and be able to find some of them based on their
similarity to existing cogs." For Kay, the expected announcement next week that
the Human Genome Project is largely finished is "unbelievably exciting.

   In fact, it makes me lose sleep, that's how exciting it is." Kay isn't the
only scientist talking as if everything is about to change. In a commencement
address at the UC San Diego School of Medicine this month, Dr. Francis Collins,
director of the National Human Genome Research Institute, told graduates to
expect to be surrounded by new insights in medicine. "Having this instruction
book for human biology ... laid out in front of us will greatly catapult us
forward in understanding the causes of virtually all complex, common disorders,"
Collins said, "and ... being able to prevent and cure those diseases with
approaches that right now we cannot imagine. "That is going to happen during
your careers, in fact I would say fairly early," said Collins, whose
organization heads the international Human Genome Project for the National
Institutes of Health. Although 90 percent of the project, begun a decade ago,
has been completed, there's more work to be done. Ultimately, scientists intend
to identify all the genes in human DNA as a way of better understanding
biological processes at the molecular level. Genes are the fundamental units of
heredity; DNA is the double-stranded molecule that encodes genetic information
in chemical building blocks called nucleotides, designated by the letters A, T,
C and G. The project, which has cost the U.S. government more than $315 million,
aims to determine the precise sequence of the 3 billion chemical letters in the
human genome, the term for all of the DNA in an organism. The "working draft"
wasn't contemplated as the finish line.

   It has gaps and errors that are expected to be filled and corrected over the
next three years. San Diego scientists see even an incomplete draft as cause for
celebration, however, because it presents a wealth of information on the genome,
including previously unknown genes. Among those surprised by how fast the work
has gone is John Wooley, associate vice chancellor for research at UCSD, who was
involved in early phases of the Human Genome Project as an official at the U.S.
Department of Energy. "The technology changed, the instrumentation improved,"
said Wooley, who called the pace of the work extraordinary. "This is really a
revolutionary step for biology," Wooley said.

   "This is the equivalent of getting the structure of the atom, of getting the
periodic table." Excruciatingly detailed biochemical and molecular analysis of
particular genes will help (as it already has in many cases) determine how an
individual gene can lead to an inherited disease or risk for disease. Richard
Firtel, director of UC San Diego's Center for Molecular Genetics, said that in
trying to draw comparisons between the genetic makeup of humans and other
organisms, "the issue has always been whether we're missing something because
the (human) genome is complete." When that obstacle is lifted, Firtel said,
researchers will "delve in and understand what type of genes are there, and be
able to start mapping human genetic defects in even more detail, so we can
understand the molecular or biochemical basis of these diseases." "Is it this
gene?

   Is it this gene?

   Which gene makes sense?

   Then you can go and start doing the more detailed analysis to find out what's
wrong." It is enormously complicated work, and even the most enthusiastic
researchers say there's no reason to expect genetic-based cures to be announced
anytime soon. Dr. Theodore Friedmann, director of the program in human gene
therapy at the UCSD School of Medicine, noted that researchers developed a
molecular understanding of sickle-cell diseases more than 40 years ago, yet the
main treatments today still address "symptomatic things" with hydration, bed
rest and antibiotics. Still, there's no question the Human Genome Project is
about to achieve a "huge technical advance," said Friedmann, comparing the work
to pictures from the Hubble Space Telescope in which discoveries are made only
after meticulous analysis. "Everybody needs to understand how difficult this all
is and how long-term it is," he said.

   "Applications for human well-being are certainly going to come.

   Some will come fairly quick but most will come in the very long term, and we
ought to quietly get on and do it." Susan Taylor, a protein chemist and head of
the Research Council for the UCSD medical school, said that when the genome
project was conceived 10 years ago, even many researchers "really didn't have a
concept of the impact it would have." With a blueprint for the entire human
genome, Taylor said, doctors will have an opportunity to prescribe drugs based
on the individual genotype of their patient, using inhibitors to the troublesome
protein that is coded for by a particular gene.

GRAPHIC: 1 PIC; CAPTIONS: Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Human
Genome Research Institute (left), and J. Craig Venter, head of Celera Genomics,
spoke to reporters this month. (A-18); PHOTOBY: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007


                             429 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     June 24, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3282 words

HEADLINE: The Promise of Precision Prescriptions; 'Pharmacogenomics' Also Raises
Issues of Race, Privacy

BYLINE: Rick Weiss , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Unlike most doctors, Georgetown University physician and pharmacologist David
Flockhart enjoys talking about his patients who didn't get better from the
medicines he prescribed, or who got even worse because of side effects.

   There was the woman who suffered excruciating pain after surgery no matter
how much codeine he prescribed.

   The patient whose tendons became so inflamed from taking a common antibiotic
years ago that she remains debilitated to this day.

   The woman who took Prozac only to find her blood pressure going through the
roof.

   Flockhart likes these sorry stories because they highlight the great
potential of "pharmacogenomics," a new field of medicine he and others are
pioneering that promises to reduce treatment failures by matching medicines to
patients' personal genetic codes.

   Among the many vaunted medical benefits promised by the Human Genome
Project--the $ 2 billion effort to spell out the entire human genetic blueprint,
whose virtual completion is expected to be announced on Monday--none is as close
to broad clinical use as pharmacogenomics.

   The new science seeks to solve a simple but long-standing problem: Medicines
are made and sold on a "one size fits all" basis, even though people vary
substantially in how they respond to those compounds. As a result of this
variability, more than 100,000 Americans die every year from side effects of
properly prescribed medicines and another 2 million are made seriously ill.

   Now, with scientists identifying more and more genes that control individual
responses to drugs, some leading-edge medical centers are starting to make
prescribing decisions on the basis of patients' genetic makeup. Five years from
now, some experts predict, it will be common for patients to take genetic tests
before their doctors decide which drug, or what dose, to prescribe for them.
That's far sooner than anyone expects to see similar success rates in the more
widely touted but failure-plagued field of gene therapy, which aims to treat
people by giving them new genes.

   Drug companies, as well as patients, stand to gain from the pharmacogenomic
revolution. By testing new and experimental drugs only in volunteers whose genes
preordain a positive response, companies can generate data that will prove
irresistible to the Food and Drug Administration, streamlining today's long and
costly drug approval process. Some companies also hope to profit from sales of
the genetic tests that will be used to match patients with appropriate drugs.

   But like so many advances in genetics, pharmacogenomics raises difficult
questions, too. As the first attempt to meld the contentious field of genetic
testing with the everyday practice of medicine, it will serve as a test case of
how society will deal with issues of genetic privacy and discrimination.

   Many people are already nervous about their genetic profiles falling into the
wrong hands, for example, but so far few people have had a reason to take such
tests. How will people react when a genetic test is required just to get a
proper prescription?

   Of equal concern, some of the gene patterns relevant to pharmacogenomics are
ethnically linked, raising issues of racial stereotyping and access to care. One
fear is that profit-conscious pharmaceutical companies will use pharmacogenomics
to aim their drug development efforts toward genetic subgroups of people who can
best afford to pay for them, further marginalizing already underserved
minorities.

   "What happens when the patient comes in and says, 'I hear there's a great new
drug for asthma,' and the doctor says . . . 'Yeah, but it's only for whites?' "
asked Mark Rothstein of the University of Houston's Health Law & Policy
Institute.

   Pharmacogenomics alters medicine's legal landscape, too. At what point should
doctors and drugmakers be liable for not taking genetic information into
account? Already a group of patients has sued the maker of a Lyme disease
vaccine, claiming that people with a particular genetic signature should not
have been given the vaccine because they are especially prone to getting serious
side effects from the shot.

   All told, experts said, pharmacogenomics presents a challenge to society for
precisely the same reason it offers so much promise: because it focuses on
people's differences.

   "We believe strongly that this is a new era and the dawning of a golden age
of personalized medicine," said Elliott Sigal, a senior vice president at
Bristol-Myers Squibb, one of several pharmaceutical companies that have launched
pharmacogenomics programs. "It does raise important issues for society in terms
of privacy, discrimination and insurance issues," Sigal said. "I think the
government will have to deal with these issues."


   Custom Treatment


   Flockhart's surgical patient presents a classic example of the need for
pharmacogenomics. After undergoing surgery on her ovaries, she was given
codeine, the most commonly prescribed painkiller in America.

   "She wanted more and more of the stuff," Flockhart recently recalled. Before
long, he said, "she was labeled a drug abuser."

   The truth was far simpler. Tests ultimately showed she was among the 7
percent of Caucasians in this country who harbor an inactive form of a gene
called CYP 2D6, which helps break down many common medicines, including codeine.
Unable to metabolize the codeine into its desired breakdown product, morphine,
the woman got no relief.

   Flockhart's patient on Prozac had the same genetic variation, but in her case
it led to an effective overdose instead of undermedication. That's because
Prozac, like codeine, is also broken down with the help of the 2D6 gene. Since
she could not metabolize the antidepressant, the woman suffered an
overaccumulation of the drug, with high blood pressure and other side effects.

   The patient with tendinitis carries a different gene variant that triggers
painful inflammatory reactions in response to so-called quinalone antibiotics.

   Scientists know of six common CYP drug-metabolizing genes, all of which
operate in the liver and are responsible for breaking down about a dozen
different drugs each. They have also begun to find other genes in other parts of
the body, which people can inherit in various forms and which can affect how
efficiently these people absorb, transport, use and excrete various medicines.

   With the recent advent of simple tests that can reveal a person's genetic
subtype from a drop of blood or a cheek swab, Flockhart said, "we're beautifully
set up to look at variations in these things from person to person. It's a real
opportunity to help a lot of people."

   In a few settings, genetic testing is already helping doctors inform their
prescribing decisions and even save lives.

   At the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., for example, Richard M. Weinshilboum
and his colleagues have been using genetic tests to individualize treatments for
children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

   The childhood cancer was universally fatal a few decades ago, but with the
advent of a drug called 6-mercaptopurine, more than 80 percent of children can
now be permanently cured. In the years since that drug's introduction, though,
two problems have plagued doctors: Why doesn't the drug work in every child, and
why does it cause serious and even fatal side effects in some?

   The answers finally arose with the tools of pharmacogenomics.

   Mercaptopurine, it turns out, is broken down in the body by an enzyme
abbreviated TPMT. But 10 percent of Caucasians and blacks carry a variant of the
TPMT gene that renders the crucial enzyme relatively ineffective, and an
additional one in 300 of these children lack the gene and the enzyme altogether.
(The variant is almost unknown in Asians.) Unable to metabolize the drug, these
children essentially overdose on even small doses, and often die from the immune
system suppression that ensues.

   At the Mayo Clinic and at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis,
doctors now routinely test for TPMT activity in leukemic children before
treating them. Children with especially high levels of the enzyme--who are, in
essence, breaking down the drug before it has a chance to kill their
cancers--are given doses up to 50 percent higher than normal in order to get a
therapeutic effect. And those who are effectively overdosing on the drug because
of their relatively inactive TPMT genes are getting doses as low as
one-fifteenth normal, providing all the anti-cancer efficacy of a normal dose
but without the extra side effects they once endured.

   One result of the new focus on pharmacogenomics is that old definitions of
diseases are breaking down. Cancers, for instance, which have traditionally been
classified by their location in the body, are increasingly being typed further
by their genetic characteristics and drug sensitivities, and medicines are being
developed to take aim at those hallmarks. Experts predict that in the next few
years a bevy of new genetic tests will show that many other diseases also
deserve to be parsed and targeted according to their genetic signatures.

   "We're going to learn it's not just 'MS,' " or multiple sclerosis, said
Kathleen Giacomini, a University of California at San Francisco researcher who
is identifying genes that affect drug absorption and transport in the body.
"It's going to be MS a, b, c and d. And we can develop new drugs for each of
these types."


   Philosophical Shift


   The driving force behind the emergence of pharmacogenomics is a little-known
follow-up project to the widely hailed Human Genome Project. Unlike the genome
project, which sought to spell out a generic "consensus" version of the human
genetic sequence, the follow-up project seeks to define the subtle differences
in that code from person to person.

   The goal is to identify hundreds of thousands of "single nucleotide
polymorphisms," or SNPs (pronounced "snips"), which are the tiny spelling
variations that occur about once in every 500 to 1,000 letters within the 3
billion-letter human genetic code.

   The recent shift by federally funded and privately financed gene researchers
away from the genome project and over to the search for SNPs represents more
than a scientific change of course. It brings with it a philosophical change of
perspective that will focus not on people's similarities but on their
differences.

   That shift is necessary if personalized gene-based medicine is to take off.
But it also brings new possibilities for genetic bias and discrimination.

   "The great promise of pharmacogenomics is that it will target drugs and
therapies to individuals," said Morris Foster, a University of Nebraska
anthropologist who is studying the field's potential impact on society. "But the
way it may work out is it will just end up emphasizing social identifiers like
race and ethnicity . . . and exacerbate social inequities."

   Not all of the genetic variations that affect how a person will respond to
various drugs track along racial or ethnic lines. Indeed, doctors could easily
run into trouble if they try to use race as a substitute for genetic testing:
Think how many people might suppose that Tiger Woods is African American or
Caribbean, one geneticist said, when in fact his mother is Thai.

   But many relevant genes do correlate with race. While only 7 percent of
Caucasians have the 2D6 variant that caused problems for some of Flockhart's
patients, for example, more than one in four Asians carry a similar variant.

   Those realities present interesting economic and ethical quandaries.

   On the economic side, pharmaceutical companies could save millions of dollars
by preselecting participants in a clinical trial so that virtually everyone
benefited and no one got side effects.

   "Efficacy could be proven in small cohorts of a few hundred patients compared
to 3,000 or 5,000 as we do now," said Gualberto Ruano, chief executive officer
of Genaissance Pharmaceuticals, a Science Park, Conn., company that is
developing genetic tests to predict people's responses to various drugs. "This
is going to change the economics of drug development radically."

   It would also reverse the current federal regulatory push to include more
diverse groupings of people in clinical trials--a push that arose a few years
ago in response to concerns that minorities were being left out of the drug
approval process. Under the new rubric of pharmacogenomics, though, expert
reviewers might deem it unethical to test a new drug on people whose genes
suggest they won't respond well to the drug, since those participants' sole
purpose would be to demonstrate side effects.

   At the same time, any drug that gained approval through such a process would
have proven its mettle only in people with a narrow genetic or racial grouping,
and would probably be approved by the FDA only for use in those people.

   "That could be a problem," said Larry Palmer, a professor at the Cornell
University Law School who is studying the legal implications of
pharmacogenomics. "You know the drug companies are going to market it as best
they can. And the average practitioner may use it without the deep understanding
of the science needed to use it appropriately on the right individuals."

   Moreover, given the chance to focus their efforts this way, would companies
even bother developing drugs for people with rare genes? It's too soon to say,
but there is some evidence that some might not.

   About five years ago, for example, pharmaceutical giant Merck & Co. was
supporting a small Seattle company called Ostex International to develop a test
that could identify women at high risk of osteoporosis. The hope, said Gilbert
S. Omenn, executive vice president for medical affairs at the University of
Michigan, was to use the test as a marketing tool for Merck's new bone-building
drug, Fosamax, which Merck hoped to sell widely to post-menopausal women.

   But when early studies with the test indicated that only half of all
postmenopausal women might actually need the drug, Omenn said, Merck pulled out
of the partnership and left the little company in a state of near financial
ruin, from which it is now recovering.

   "Merck wanted to say that as soon as women get menopause they should take
these drugs," said Thomas O. Bologna, Ostex's CEO. Rather than use an objective
test to measure real need, Bologna said, "they decided to rely on salespeople to
convince physicians to convince patients to use these drugs."

   A Merck spokeswoman said the company's withdrawal from Ostex was not related
to marketing concerns but came out of a decision to focus solely on the
treatment of osteoporosis, not on methods for diagnosing it.

   Others said that even if the big drug companies do end up focusing only on
the most common genetic subpopulations, there are plenty of small biotechnology
companies that would be happy to find niches that cover even 5 or 10 percent of
the population.

   Another hurdle that pharmacogenomics must clear is public wariness of genetic
tests--especially among minorities, who have traditionally been more mistrustful
of such tests.

   Proponents say gene tests that predict a person's response to a medicine
should not be as controversial as other kinds of gene tests that predict, for
example, a person's long-term odds of getting a fatal disease.

   "It's not the same as telling someone that they're going to get Alzheimer's
disease someday, which freaks people out," said Kathleen Giacomini, the
University of California at San Francisco researcher. "This is a more
people-friendly kind of genetic test."

   A handful of companies are counting on that attitude, and are already
developing kits that people will be able to use at home to see which versions of
several key drug-metabolizing genes they've inherited. At least one company,
PPGx Inc. near Research Triangle Park, N.C., hopes to offer at-home test kits by
the end of this year, said the company's CEO, Josh Baker.

   If genetic tests prove as essential to the art and science of prescribing as
proponents believe, it may come to pass that for some drugs, at least, anything
less rigorous than individualized dosing will be considered malpractice.

   Last winter, several patients brought a class action suit against SmithKline
Beecham, the maker of a Lyme disease vaccine, claiming that the company should
have warned people about evidence that the shot can cause a severe form of
arthritis in certain people.

   Federal records show that the FDA advisory committee that recommended the
vaccine's approval spent considerable time looking at preliminary evidence that
people with a genetic hallmark called HLA-DR4 might be especially likely to
experience the severe reaction.

   Ultimately, however, the researchers who tested the vaccine for SmithKline
convinced the officials that the data were too weak to believe. Now, in what may
be the first intersection of pharmacogenomics and the law, they will have to
defend that conclusion in court.


   DECODING DRUG RESPONSIVENESS


   Scientists are starting to identify the genes that vary from person to person
and that influence how different people respond to various medicines. They are
developing genetic tests that will tell doctors which people should get which
drugs, to maximize drug effectiveness and minimize side effects in each patient.


   Activation: Some people have genes that are more responsive to some
medications than others, explaining in part why some antidepressants, for
example, work better in some people than in others.


   Transport: Some people have genes that make blood-borne proteins that bind
tightly to medicines, making them unavailable where they're needed.


   Metabolism: Some people have genes that break drugs down very quickly or
unusually slowly, which can complicate efforts to achieve proper dosing.


   Elimination: Some people have genes that speed up or slow the elimination of
drugs from the blood, which can affect dosing schedules or the choice of drug.


   Absorption: Some people have genes that result in inefficient absorption into
the blood, so they may need higher doses or more easily absorbed drugs.


   Medicine and Race


   Race influences which people are genetically predisposed to lack various
enzymes needed to break down medications. Without those enzymes, the medication
can have either a heightened or lessened effect.


   Enzyme: 2D6

   Note: Also reduced in 5% of Caucasians, 12% of blacks and 25% of Asians.


   Absent in: 7% Caucasians

   2% Blacks

   1% Asians


   Some drugs affected: Codeine

   Metoprolol (Lopressor)

   Paroxetine (Paxil)


   Enzyme: 2C19


   Absent in: 3% Caucasians

   3% Blacks

   20-25% Asians


   Some drugs affected: Diazepam (Valium)

   Phenytoin (Dilantin)

   Nelfinavir (Viracept)


   Enzyme: 2C9


   Absent in: 2% Caucasians

   2% Blacks

   <1% Asians


   Some drugs affected: Warfarin (Coumadin)

   Ibuprofen (Motrin)

   Naproxen (Naprosyn)


   SOURCE: David Flockhart, Georgetown University; staff reporting


   About This Series


   Scientists are on the brink of deciphering the entire

   human genetic blueprint. The accomplishment will launch a new era in biology
and medicine. The long-term

   ramifications are profound: new medical treatments; a fundamental new
understanding of the human organism; novel ways to diagnose disease, before
birth or even

   before conception; the potential to manipulate traits such as looks or
intelligence. In many ways, society is not yet prepared for the full
implications. The Washington Post will continue to explore these issues in depth
in a series of occasional reports over the next several months.



GRAPHIC: Illustration, TWP

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000


                             430 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      June 23, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: REGION BRIEFS;
GENZYME SEEN FILING FOR OK OF FABRY'S DRUG

BODY:

   Genzyme Corp., is expected to file today for Food and Drug Administration
approval of its drug Fabrazyme, which is designed to treat the rare metabolic
disorder Fabry's disease. Genzyme's filing is timed to ensure that a review of
Fabrazyme begins before July 20. The FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and
Research said this month that would not review applications between June 26 and
July 20, while its database is being converted to a new system. Genzyme is
racing against Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. to get its drug to market. Because
the Fabry's disease treatment is eligible for orphan drug status, approval would
give only one of the companies tax advantages and seven years on the market with
no competition.  A smaller competitor, Transkaryotic Therapies, submitted its
application for a Fabry's treatment, Replagal, Friday. Cambridge-based Genzyme's
shares fell $2.375 to $56.875. Transkaryotic's shares fell $6.0625 to $33.6875.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000


                             431 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       June 23, 2000 Friday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 032

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS In Brief

BODY:


   Raytheon wins with radar role

   WASHINGTON - A major new missile defense program that could bring $ 1 billion
or more in revenue to Raytheon Co. won approval from a Pentagon panel yesterday
and could be under way by the end of next week.

   Called the Theater High-Altitude Area Air Defense system, the $ 4 billion
tactical ground defense missile batteries will be built by Raytheon rival
Lockheed Martin Corp. But Raytheon will provide three radar guidance systems
during the development phase, said Raytheon spokesman Dave Shea in Lexington.

   The missile defense system is expected to be deployed beginning in 2007.
Raytheon is the main subcontractor for radar. - BLOOMBERG NEWS

   Race for drug approval

   Genzyme Corp. is expected to file today for federal Food and Drug
Administration approval of its drug Fabrazyme to treat the rare metabolic
disorder Fabry's disease. Genzyme's filing is timed to ensure that a review of
Fabrazyme begins before July 20.

   Cambridge-based Genzyme is racing against Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.,
another Cambridge company, to get its drug to market. Transkaryotic submitted
its application for a Fabry's treatment, Replagal, last Friday.

   Because of the rarity of Fabry's disease, whichever drug wins approval first
would prevent other treatments from reaching the market for seven years.  -
BLOOMBERG NEWS

   Maurice shops bankrupt

   Maurice Corp., the retailer that operates Maurice the Pants Man and Poore
Simon's stores, filed for bankruptcy protection in Worcester Wednesday and plans
to liquidate all 50 stores.

   With offices in Worcester and Portsmouth, N.H., Maurice listed $ 12million in
assets and $ 15 million in debt. Creditors include Levi Strauss, Adidas,
Champion and Nike.

   After a difficult holiday shopping season, Maurice had told creditors in
February it didn't have enough cash to pay its bills. - HERALD STAFF

   Manufacturers' IPO out

   Manufacturers' Services Ltd. of Concord, which oversees manufacturing
operations for the computer industry, yesterday sold 11 million shares at $ 16 a
share to raise as much as $ 176 million in an initial public stock offering.
Trading in the company is expected to begin today on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol MSV. - HERALD STAFF

   WorldCom may sell

   WorldCom Inc. may offer to sell Sprint Corp.'s long-distance telephone and
Internet units to get antitrust approval for the part it really wants, Sprint's
wireless business, people familiar with the situation said.

   The companies are still developing the proposal, meant to allay concern the
combined company would have too much of the U.S. long-distance market and
Internet traffic, the people said. WorldCom, the No. 2 long-distance carrier
after AT&T Corp., offered $ 148 billion for No. 3 Sprint. - BLOOMBERG NEWS

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000


                             432 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    June 21, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Simple things close to heart of family man;

BYLINE: JUDY HILL;

BODY:


   WESLEY CHAPEL - Ask Gary Arnold what's important in life and you might be
surprised at his  answers.

   Sure, he'll tell you about his heart transplant last month - as well as the
10 years of ill  health leading up to it.

   But spend some time with the former auto body repairman and his wife of 34
years, Donna, the  volunteer coordinator at Tampa General Hospital, and the
conversation focuses not on major events,  but on the little things.

   Things like sitting in a rocker on the porch on a bright summer day, admiring
a handmade gift  created by a grandchild, enjoying a meal with family and
friends.

   And maybe, if there is a gift that goes along with chronic illness, it's a
heightened  appreciation of the ordinary activities and simple pleasures that
give life richness and texture.

   Not too long ago, Gary, 53, couldn't get out of bed most days, and there were
no guarantees that  he would live past lunch, much less long enough to watch his
grandchildren grow up.

   The scourge hit about 10 years ago. Because of a genetic condition, Gary's
liver doesn't break  down cholesterol, so his arteries clog like gunk-filled
sewer pipes. He had his first heart attack  in 1989, followed by quadruple
bypass surgery.

   Gary recounts the past decade pretty unemotionally given its devastation. He
tears up  occasionally, but mostly he smiles at his adoring wife, who smiles
back across the kitchen table in  their modest home off State Road 54 in
southern Pasco County. Her mom is visiting; other family  have been and gone.
More are on the way.

   EVEN THOUGH HEART transplants aren't the big deal they once were - Tampa
General recently  celebrated its 15th anniversary as a heart transplant facility
- if you've just had one, it's a big  deal. So family gathers.

   They've been worrying about Gary since that first bypass more than a decade
ago.

   What he has been through since makes him a hero by any standards -
particularly in his family's  eyes.

   By the time he had his second heart attack in 1993, Gary and Donna had moved
to Tampa from the  Chicago area to get away from the cold.

   The weather didn't improve his condition. In fact, he suffered five strokes
and was forced to  retire.

   Eventually in unrelenting pain, he was told by doctors he wouldn't live long.

   So in 1997, Gary became the first patient in Florida to have an experimental
procedure in which  tiny holes were drilled into his heart to increase blood
flow.

   Recovery and relief were almost immediate. For 18 months, he lived like a new
man.

   BUT THE FIX didn't last.

   More experimental treatments - gene therapy to grow new arteries at St.
Elizabeth's in Boston -  also failed.

   A third heart attack led to a dangerous second bypass, which didn't help,
either.

   That left only one alternative: a transplant.

   He went on the list in February.

   Yet even that seemed ill-fated. A heart was found in March. He rushed to
Tampa General, where  surgeons opened him up to prepare for the new organ.

   But it failed before harvesting.

   Finally, in May Gary got a heart that seems to work fine.

   His complexion has pinked up and his mood perked up.

   He's ready to start life again.

   So what does he want to do most?

   Just ordinary stuff.

   Take a walk with his wife, wrestle with his grandchildren and, oh, yes, go
bowling.  Judy Hill can be reached at jhill@tampatrib.com, (813) 259-7812, by
fax at (813) 259-7676 or by writing her c/o The Tampa Tribune, P.O. Box 191,
Tampa FL 33601.

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE (C)

NOTES: JUDY HILL

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000


                             433 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                     June 20, 2000, Tuesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 20 Medicine

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Other techniques for opening arteries

SOURCE: Associated Press

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   BOSTON - Radioactive beads may be doctors' latest tool for keeping arteries
open after angioplasty, but that is unlikely to be the last. Among other
strategies in the works:

   Gene therapy: The goal is to deliver genes during angioplasty that will shut
off the body's impulse to produce clogging regrowth of tissue.

   Radioactive stents: Instead of inserting radioactive material in the artery
and then removing it, a radioactive stent would be left in place to prevent
tissue growth.

   Drug-coated stents: Among the possibilities are stents coated with Taxol, the
chemotherapy drug, and other medicines to kill fast-growing tissue.

   X-rays: Rather then relying on the radioactive isotopes used in cancer
treatment, miniature X-ray beam emitters are being developed as a potentially
easier way to deliver radiation on a catheter.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000


                             434 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     June 20, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Head of Watchdog Agency Faces Questions; Unit Investigates Human
Medical Studies, Including One That Director Oversaw

BYLINE: Rick Weiss; Deborah Nelson , Washington Post Staff Writers

BODY:


   The new director of the federal government's lead watchdog agency for human
medical experiments is himself embroiled in an ongoing investigation by that
agency into a gene study that he supervised in his previous job.

   Harvard professor Greg Koski was tapped two weeks ago to lead the Office for
Human Research Protections, the agency the Clinton administration recently
renamed, revamped and relocated to a top spot in the Department of Health and
Human Services.

   Until the new appointment, Koski was director of human research affairs at
Partners HealthCare System Inc. in Boston, where he oversaw the protection of
research volunteers in experiments carried out by a consortium of
Harvard-affiliated hospitals.

   "Greg Koski is the right person with the right experience at the right time
to take on this challenge," Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E.
Shalala said in announcing his position.

   Not said, however, was that the employees Koski is poised to supervise are
already investigating a whistleblower's complaint about the adequacy of patient
protection in a gene study by Brigham and Women's Hospital, one of the
consortium of hospitals in his charge.

   An HHS spokesman called the apparent conflict of interest "routine" and said
the new director would recuse himself from overseeing the agency's Harvard
investigation.

   But patient protection experts inside and outside the government criticized
that approach as inadequate, because Koski still would oversee the investigative
staff and have authority over staff members' careers.

   "It would certainly seem a smart thing for a person like Greg Koski not to
walk into a situation where, if the outcome of the investigation is to exonerate
Harvard, then you have people saying, 'Well, of course. What else could those
employees have done? Are they going to turn in their boss?' " said Alex Capron,
a professor of law and medicine at the University of Southern California and a
member of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission.

   "In ethics what is so very important is not only the absence of a conflict
but the absence of a perception of a conflict," Capron said. "It's an issue that
anyone coming into the job has to be sensitive to, and if I were Greg Koski I
wouldn't want to get off on the wrong foot."

   Critics called for the Harvard investigation to be handed over to the
independent HHS Office of Inspector General.

   Koski was not available for comment.

   Formal complaints of patient abuses in medical research are relatively rare.
The current investigation stems from a former Harvard faculty member's complaint
last September alleging regulatory violations in several related genetic studies
in China run by Harvard researchers through various institutions, including
Brigham and Women's.

   Most of the studies involved drawing blood from Chinese participants to
search their DNA for genetic links to various diseases. The complaint alleged
that the researchers and their sponsoring institutions did not adequately weigh,
among other things, the risk that the Chinese government would discriminate
against those participants found to have a genetic "defect."

   Koski chaired the Harvard-affiliated science and ethics oversight committee
that was responsible for approving the China experiment repeatedly in annual
reviews. An HHS official said Koski never "personally gave his approval" of the
China study because a subcommittee handled those annual reviews--a delegation of
authority the HHS official acknowledged may not have been "in full compliance"
with federal regulations.

   A Brigham and Women's spokeswoman disagreed, saying Koski personally read and
"ratified" the subcommittee's recommendations.

   In either case, both officials agreed, Koski was ultimately responsible for
the China study's ongoing approval.

   The complaint was filed initially with the federal Office for Protection from
Research Risks (OPRR)--the predecessor to Koski's new Office for Human Research
Protections, which came into formal existence yesterday and has inherited the
OPRR's investigative caseload. Sources said the investigation of the Harvard
study could take months or even years to complete, because the office has a
limited staff.

   A Harvard spokeswoman said an internal oversight committee visited China last
April and found adequate protections in place to ensure that participants were
well-informed about the study and that any genetic information about them would
be kept confidential.

   The controversy comes at a time of heightened public and congressional
interest in the protection of human subjects in medical experiments--interest
that reached critical mass last September following the death of a mostly
healthy teenage patient in a University of Pennsylvania gene therapy study.

   In April the HHS inspector general released a report concluding that the
federal government had made "minimal progress" in the past two years toward
implementing suitable protections for people in medical experiments.

   Three weeks later, Shalala introduced several initiatives to enhance
protections for human research subjects. But the cornerstone of Shalala's plan
has been the long-awaited upgrading of the OPRR--a relatively low-ranking office
in the National Institutes of Health--to the newly renamed Office for Human
Research Protections, which has the prestige of being located within Shalala's
office.

   Koski was chosen to lead that office after a nationwide search and was hailed
by department officials as someone who would reinvigorate federal patient
protection programs.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000


                             435 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 19, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: NEW ECONOMY;
There's gold in humanDNA, and he who maps it first stands to win on the
scientific, software and business fronts.

BYLINE: By Tim Race

BODY:

   SDOON, perhaps within days, researchers expect to announce completion of the
decade-long project to map the human genome.

   If you hadn't already been paying attention, both BusinessWeek and The New
Yorker recently produced major articles on J. Craig Venter, the
scientist-entrepreneur who broke from the public science orthodoxy a few years
ago and started a commercial race to finish the treasure map. (BusinessWeek, in
its captain-of-industry feature, declared a "genome gold rush" and explained its
election of Mr. Venter to cover-photo status this way: "Well, Craig, you've
earned it.")

    Whether Mr. Venter's enterprise, the Celera Genomics group of the PE
Corporation, finishes first, or whether the $3 billion publicly financed,
international Human Genome Project somehow wins at the wire, completion will be
a significant milestone -- not only for molecular biology, but for computer
science. And for business, of course. Stand by for the New Genomics to become
the next big thing in the New Economics.

   Aided by extensive computer processing power, the genome researchers have
been engaged in what is essentially a giant software project. Sequencing the
human genome, as the task is known, involves sifting through the three billion
units of DNA at the heart of every human cell to identify the 80,000 or so genes
that define all inheritable physical and behavioral traits. This identification
process is not the same as decoding, however. For even after all those genes
have been identified, each one still needs to be translated to determine its
meaning.

   Think of each gene as a snatch of encrypted software -- a set of instructions
that tells cells which proteins to produce in order to make, repair or regulate
some part of the human body. To researchers, each gene initially seems like a
piece of encrypted e-mail. Simply knowing that there's a gene in the In Box
isn't enough; somebody has to unscramble the code to understand what the gene
actually means.

   So this first phase is only a starting point. But eventually, sequencing the
human genome is expected to give medical researchers the knowledge to devise new
techniques for diagnosing, treating and even preventing all sorts of diseases in
which genetic differences play a role -- whether purely physical afflictions
like cancer or mentally manifested ones like schizophrenia.

   Already, some useful data has emerged from this effort, as the mappers have
published various gene sequences -- the coded text of individual genes. An early
leader in translating genomic data into actual drugs is Human Genome Sciences, a
Rockville, Md., company that is currently in human trials with two gene-based
therapies. One is meant to protect the body's blood-forming cells during cancer
chemotherapy; the other is being tested as a wound-healing agent.

   How soon these, or other gene therapies, might reach the market is hard to
predict. But the business and investing worlds, eager to find the next hot
market, are prepared to celebrate the gene kings in the same way they've feted
the Internet titans.

   It was no accident that the chairman and chief executive of Human Genome
Sciences, William A. Haseltine, recently shared a stage with Steve Case,
chairman of America Online, at a dinner held by the prestigious Economic Club of
New York. The organizers, presumably, have already figured out that the New
Economics and the New Genomics are adjacent steps on technology's ever-ascending
spiral staircase.

   Mr. Haseltine allowed as much. After Mr. Case delivered a speech about the
Net as "a massive social phenomenon," Mr. Haseltine took the podium and said, "I
couldn't do the work I do today without the advances that have been made in
computation."

   And then Mr. Haseltine, speaking without notes, laid out a number of issues
in genomics that -- even if he didn't explicitly draw the parallels -- have
their computing and Internet counterparts.

   He referred to the harnessing of genes and proteins as a new medicine, whose
benefits he described in new-economic terms as "a new and scalable form of
productivity." He spoke of the public-policy goal of ensuring a "uniform access
to the new medicine," a phrase resonant with the goals of digital-divide
advocates who seek equal Internet access for all.

   And making clear that, whether the code is digital or genetic, business is
business, Mr. Haseltine argued that "protection of intellectual property in its
multiple forms is crucial." In this newest chapter of the information age, the
data continues to have intrinsic value.

   A reason Mr. Venter and Celera hurried to complete their own human genome
database was so they could sell that information to other researchers. Likewise,
Mr. Haseltine, a former business partner of Mr. Venter's, has sought to stake a
commercial claim by patenting his company's gene work. So far Human Genome
Sciences has applied for more than 7,500 human-gene patents and has been granted
more than 130.

   To his Economic Club audience, Mr. Haseltine patiently explained that gene
patents make no ownership claim on each individual's personal DNA chemistry. The
patents, he said, cover only specific, applied knowledge about human genes. He
said such knowledge resulted from considerable money and effort, which would not
be expended without the lure of a commercial payoff.

   It all sounded reasonable. And it sounded like the same capitalism that has
long driven advances in the software industry.

   As it happens, Mr. Haseltine addressed the Economic Club only a few hours
after a federal judge ordered the breakup of Microsoft. Is it irony, or
symmetry, that genomics is reaching its big milestone at the same historic
moment that the government wants to break up the world's most powerful software
company?

   Microsoft is being censured for the way it has wielded market power over the
desktop operating system. Will some other company, someday, be investigated for
its market power over the genome -- the basic human operating system?

   The one certainty is that the gold rush is on. BusinessWeek says so. And now,
any Nasdaq investor who saw selling pet food over the Internet as the apotheosis
of technology should get ready: Be prepared to gaze in slack-jawed wonder at
what computers and DNA software compilers are about to let us in for.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)

Chart: "New Economics-New Genomics: A Translation"
Now that you're able to work URL, click-through and middleware into everyday
conversation, it's time to start learning a new dialect. Here are some basic
dot-com symbols and terms, with their loose equivalents in genomese.

NEW ECONOMICS
1. The all-purpose @
2. Antivirus software
3. Interface
4. Hot link
5. HTML -- Stands for hypertext markup language, the basic language for the
Web's programming code


NEW GENOMICS
1. The all-purpose
2. Antibodies
3. Phenotype
4. Genetic marker
5. ATGC -- Stands for the chemicals adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine, the
letters of the DNA code.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000


                             436 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        June 18, 2000 Sunday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-36

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Science Today Genetics triumph near Projects to map human genome
almost finished

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Neus, Gannett News Service,

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - By the end of June, scientists hope to have reached  a
biological Holy Grail, the life sciences' equivalent of putting  a man on the
moon: a completed map of every piece of DNA that  makes up the human genome.

   When the announcement comes, however, it will be far from the  'Eureka!'
moment you would expect for such a major scientific  achievement. Much of the
information already is public, available  to any scientist with an Internet
connection.

   Private-sector researchers already have trumped the $ 3  billion government
effort, announcing in April that they had  decoded the genome of one person;
they believe they will have it  in readable form by month's end. The government
researchers plan  to announce only the completion of a 'working draft,' a rough
form  of the genome that isn't done but contains information scientists  can
work with.

   'It's more of an odometer moment,' said Francis Collins,  director of the
National Human Genome Research Institute, where  the federal project is based.

   Yet none of that is meant to diminish the accomplishment of  the project.
Even without a completed map, the mere existence of  the Human Genome Project
has fundamentally changed the way we  think about disease diagnosis and
treatment, drug development -  even our own personal medical history.

   And genetics has become big business, large enough that when  the stock value
of genomic companies slumps - as it did in  connection with statements made by
President Clinton about the  importance of government-funded research in March -
the entire  Nasdaq takes a hit.

   'I was naive in not appreciating how golden genes are,' said  James Watson,
the co-discoverer of DNA and the original director  of the Human Genome Project.

   The federal Human Genome Project began in 1988, its  foundation in the
Department of Energy's desire to track minute  genetic changes in order to
detect damage from radiation. Work was  slow at first because the technology to
do what the scientists  wanted to didn't exist. Not until 1998 were federal
researchers  even confident they'd be able to pull it off.

   With the completion that year of the genetic sequence of a  worm called C.
elegans, the first complex creature to have its  genome sequenced, followed in
1999 by the first finished sequence  of a human chromosome, a bit of the
pressure was off. Human  sequence has come fast and furious in the past year.
While it took  researchers four years to do the first third of the map, the
second third came in four months.

   Collins likes to show a chart with a line that is essentially  flat until it
hits about 1998, then rises nearly vertically - it  is the amount of sequenced
genome. 'Curves of this sort, when  you're riding on them, can be very
interesting,' he said.

   One particularly sharp curve came with the creation of Celera  Genomics in
1998 and the announcement by its founder, J. Craig  Venter, that he also planned
to sequence the human genome. Direct  competition from the private sector is
almost unheard of on big  science projects paid for by the government; imagine
Boeing going  up against NASA to put a man on the moon.

   There also were fears - which Venter tries frequently to  dispel - that a
private company would keep its information to  itself or charge so much that
government-funded scientists could  not afford it. Celera wants people to stop
worrying; it is  offering free downloads or CD-ROMs of its groundbreaking fruit
fly  sequence (fruit flies are critical in genetic research) as proof  of good
intentions.

   Celera relies on the largest civilian supercomputer created  to date to
produce its genetic sequences - machines so big the  company pays $ 1 million
per year in electric bills to run them.  With all that power behind it, the
company sequenced the genome in  seven months.

   This all led to a bit of panic, some public name calling, a  lot of jawing
over whose sequencing method was more accurate - the  public and government
projects use slightly different methods to  decode DNA - and what to all
appearances looked like a race to be  the first to finish the genome.

   'I hope you guys are tired of that metaphor, because we sure  are,' Collins
told reporters recently.

   Publicly, Collins and Venter now try to say nice things about  one another
and their work. Collins made a point of slipping up to  Venter at a recent
conference on cancer and genetics to shake his  hand in front of TV cameras and
reporters.

   'It's been painful for both of us,' Venter said of the past  few months. 'But
one of the good side effects is that the world is  far more aware of genomics
than it would be otherwise.'

   Yet, genetics already is a part of our world.

   Today, you can be tested for genes linked to diseases from  sickle cell
anemia to cancer. A few hospitals have the capability  to test people for a
genetic structure that affects the way they  react to common drugs. Yet the
uneasy question of who has access  to this information, and what can be done
with it after your  doctor is finished, lingers.

   Genetically engineered foods have triggered riots in Seattle,  boycotts in
Europe and nervous tremors in the board rooms of food  manufacturers as attempts
are made to balance the risks and  benefits of the new products in the face of
public confusion and  outrage.

   Research into gene therapy is far enough along that  scientists can report a
few upbeat results, even as they struggle  with the continuing controversy over
the first patient deaths and  the way some programs have been run.

   Even with the competition between public and private genome  sequencing
projects, 'everyone has gained,' said Watson, one of  the winners of the 1962
Nobel Prize in medicine for his work in  the discovery of DNA.

   'The data has come sooner, there's more money. The people who  said this was
a waste of money are no longer heard.'

   RESEARCH BEGAN WITH MENDEL

   A century and a half ago, an Austrian monk, Gregor Mendel,  toiled diligently
in his monastery garden. Through elegant  breeding experiments with pea plants,
he witnessed genes in action  by studying simple traits such as flower color or
the wrinkled or  smooth texture of the peas.

   Mendel's work was ignored until 1900, when three scientists  rediscovered his
papers. What followed was an explosion of  interest in genetics, with
researchers investigating myriad traits  in plants, fruit flies, fungi,
bacteria, viruses and more.

   For years scientists pondered the nature of the gene. But  they didn't see
how DNA could be involved: They thought it was too  simple a chemical - too
'stupid' - for such a sophisticated job.

   But by the early 1950s, compelling experiments had shown that  DNA was
anything but stupid. And then things started to snowball.  In 1953, scientists
James Watson and Francis Crick figured out the  structure of DNA. Soon after,
researchers discovered what made DNA  so 'smart': They cracked the code,
revealing how different genes -  different arrays of those four little building
blocks - adenine,  cytosine, guanine and thymine - direct the manufacture of
wildly  different proteins.

   - Los Angeles Times

   ON THE WEB

   The National Human Genome Research Institute: www.nhgri.nih.gov

   Celera Genomics: www.celera.com

   GenBank (where scientists can see genetic sequence):
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Genbank/GenbankOverview.html

   A visual progress report on the federal effort:
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/seq

   NEW AND IMPROVED TOOLS

   A slew of new tools and a new, 'think big' mind-set are in the  wind for
genetic research, bringing with them a new genetic lingo:  'functional
genomics,' 'pharmacogenomics,' 'proteomics' - natty  names for ways that
scientists are mining the rich lode of genome  data.

   Together, such tools will enable scientists to reap much more  from the
genome than the simple ease of cloning by catalog (or  'Nordstromics,' as Steve
Kay, geneticist at the Institute of  Childhood and Neglected Diseases at the
Scripps Research Institute  in La Jolla, Calif., likes to term it).

   They now have a new way of examining life.

   At places such as UCLA's human genetics department and  California Institute
of Technology's new L.K. Whittier Gene  Expression Center, banks of powerful
computers for  number-crunching genome data and newfangled 'DNA chip' facilities

  are now center-stage players in research.

   - Los Angeles Times


GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Associated Press/Mark Charette Dr. Francis Collins, left,
director of the Human Genome Research Institute, and J. Craig Venter, head of
Celera Genomics, meet at the 2000 Annual Scientific Conference earlier this
month.  Gannett News Service Schedule for finishing genetic maps Janet Loehrke,
Gannett News Service The history of genetic discovery

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000


                             437 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     June 17, 2000, Saturday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: TRANSKARYOTIC TO SEEK OK FOR FABRY DISEASE DRUG

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

   The race to gain approval for an enzyme replacement drug to treat Fabry
disease, a rare genetic disorder, entered the final stretch yesterday when
Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. submitted its license application for Replagal to
the US Food and Drug Administration.

   Genzyme Corp., TKT's major rival, said it would submit its Fabry drug for FDA
approval within the next two weeks.

      The proverbial brass ring both Cambridge companies are seeking upon FDA
approval is designation as the sole provider of the medication to treat Fabry
patients under the Orphan Drug Act, which grants one company seven years of
market exclusivity. Genzyme is familiar with the law, having developed Ceredase,
an enzyme replacement drug to treat the rare inherited disorder Gaucher's
disease,

   Last year Cerezyme, the successor drug to Ceredase, had sales of nearly $480
million from about 2,500 patients. Replagal is TKT's first drug submitted for
final FDA review.

   Both TKT and Genzyme are expected to submit drugs that are very similar to
alpha-galactosidase A, a naturally occurring enzyme that is missing or deficient
in people with Fabry disease. Without the enzyme some fats and sugars, known as
lipids, accumulate on blood vessel walls, restricting blood flow and causing
intense pain in hands and feet and ultimately damage to vital organs such as the
kidney and heart.

   Each company has been circumspect about discussing clinical trial results for
their respective drugs. Genzyme said it has conducted pivotal Phase III tests of
its drug at eight medical centers in the United States and Europe but declined
to specify how many people participated.

   TKT yesterday said it submitted two Phase II clinical trial results for FDA
approval - a 26-patient trial conducted by with the National Institue of
Neurological Disorders and Strokes in Bethesda, Md., and a 15-patient
examination at the Royal Free Hospital in London. In both trials patients
received Replagal or a placebo by intravenous infusion every two weeks over a
six-month period. TKT also has provided the FDA with long-term data from 25
patients treated for about one year in a separate study for the National
Institutes of Health.

   Unlike major diseases, only about 2,000 people in the United States are
diagnosed with Fabry, according to Genzyme and TKT officials.

   Asked why TKT is submitting Phase II data rather than conduct a pivotal Phase
III trial, president and chief executive Dr. Richard F. Selden said its clinical
trials were the equivalent of Phase III examinations, only with fewer
participants.

   "Usually Phase III trials are thought of in large numbers, but we have worked
with the FDA on the protocols of these [Phase II] trials," said Selden, who
hopes to gain FDA approval by the end of this year or early 2001, along with
Orphan Drug designation.

   A spokeman for Genzyme said submitting data to the FDA a few weeks after TKT
should not impact who gains final approval.

   TKT's plans for Replagal are independent of the company's patent infringement
trial against Amgen Inc. before US District Court Judge William G. Young,
currently in recess until July 5.

   TKT closed yesterday at $35, up $1.6875. Genzyme closed at $56.75, up 31
cents.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2000


                             438 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        June 16, 2000 Friday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-28

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Gene scientists face shortage of volunteers

BYLINE: By Joseph B. Verrengia, The Associated Press,

BODY:

   Scientists say they are having trouble recruiting volunteers for  gene
therapy trials following the death of a patient last year and  a resulting
federal crackdown on experiments.

   Researchers attending the recent annual meeting of the  American Society for
Gene Therapy in Denver asked for the public's  patience as they try to rescue
what had been the hottest field in  science from the flames of controversy.

   Researchers at the meeting reported 'spectacular' results in  a few, isolated
trials to treat rare inherited diseases. And they  reported more modest progress
in the genetic treatment of more  common and complex diseases such as cancer.

   Federal health officials have proposed fines of up to $ 1  million for
scientists and their universities who violate medical  research rules governing
genetic trials.

   The penalties were prompted by the death last September of  Jesse Gelsinger,
18, at the University of Pennsylvania.

   The Tucson teenager suffered from a rare metabolic disorder.  Researchers at
the University of Pennsylvania had infused his  liver with a virus that was
supposed to spread new, corrective DNA  in his cells. But the virus triggered a
fatal immune-system  reaction.

   The university's gene therapy institute and its director were  barred from
conducting trials with human patients after more  safety violations and possible
financial conflicts of interest  were revealed.

   Federal regulators also are launching an in-depth inspection  of 70
additional gene therapy experiments around the country.

   Other researchers said Gelsinger's death has made recruiting  new patients
more difficult.

   'Philadelphia has been the epicenter over the past year and  it has affected
us,' said Katherine High of the Children's  Hospital of Philadelphia. Her gene
therapy trial is boosting  levels of a blood-clotting protein in hemophiliacs,
but the  treatment has been limited to few patients.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000


                             439 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                      June 16, 2000, Friday 2 STAR EDITION

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Biocomputing is just a germ of an idea, but some day it may become an
epidemic;
Calculating Solutions

SOURCE: New York Times

BYLINE: ANNE EISENBERG

BODY:

   Can living cells be transformed into computers? A number of researchers are
betting that the answer is yes. They are trying to use DNA, in and out of actual
living cells, that can add, subtract, store results and run programs.

   If they succeed, silicon and the microchips it made possible may one day be
replaced by bacteria that can handle computing. Such biological computers could
be able to handle very large numbers of analytical steps simultaneously, a
process called parallel computing, and might be able to do that cheaply.

   Not quite yet, though. While scientists seek to hijack the biological
controls already present in cells and reprogram them for their own purposes, no
one knows how to get a billion or so cells talking to one another in a
controlled fashion.

   But a few advances have been made in this new crossover field in science,
part of a new area called biological computing, or biocomputing. While
biocomputing includes ways to do rudimentary computing with DNA itself,
scientists have begun looking at ways to do computations in whole cells by
engineering part of the cells' DNA and the machinery controlled by those genes.

   For example, scientists have used genes to build a biological toggle switch,
which corresponds to a fundamental element in computers, and a rudimentary
clock. Such biological clocks might someday mimic the clocks that synchronize
various programs in computers.

   A start-up company has even been set up to create what its founders call
"genetic applets," pieces of DNA that handle functions analogous to those
handled by pieces of computer code.

   Some of the work on DNA-based computing is being done by computer scientists,
physicists, mathematicians and engineers who have never taken a graduate biology
class but have learned on the job. Many of these scientists are finding that
research in the dry world of silicon has not prepared them for the uncertainties
of a "wet" laboratory, where their mathematical models need to come alive.

   "This is nanotechnology in a wetter form, namely in a living cell," said Dr.
James Collins, a professor of biomedical engineering at Boston University who is
a physicist by training and has become a leader in biocomputing. "We are
probably decades away from having a jar of bacteria computing on your desk, but
we are nearing the point where you can have cells programmed for different
functions, and therefore be considered as computing devices."

   Collins and his colleagues have in fact demonstrated it is possible to
program cells by injecting new gene networks engineered from strips of DNA into
the cells so that the cells respond to changes in their environment in ways that
could one day be useful for computations. The mechanisms are slow and cumbersome
- on the order of minutes, if not hours, and as much as a billion times slower
than the computations of current electronic computers. But it is early days in
the world of genetic circuits.

   At Boston University, a step toward a future of synthetic, programmable gene
circuits was taken about two years ago by Collins and Dr. Timothy Gardner, who
was a graduate student in Collins' group at the time and coined the term genetic
applets.

   Collins' laboratory wanted to create the biological version of a basic
element in a digital circuit, the on-off toggle.

   "We were looking for the equivalent of a light switch to flip processes on or
off in the cell," Gardner said. "Then I realized a way to do this with genes
instead of with electric circuits."

   The idea meshed with the mathematical modeling the researchers were doing to
predict how switches would behave in the world of living cells, where responses
are often not the simple, predictable ones of a linear system. "We created a
nonlinear model and made some predictions about how the switch would behave in a
cell," Gardner said. "Then basically there was nothing left to do except build
it."

   The idea was to engineer a circular section of DNA with two genes that
inhibit each other, so the first gene is on while the second one is off, and
vice versa. Those states can be thought of as a zero or 1, just as a silicon
switch is on or off. The gene network is prodded to switch from one state to the
other by a dose of a particular chemical or a change of temperature. If the cell
is given enough of the chemical, for instance, the inactive gene will turn on;
by turning on, it turns off the other gene.

   Of course, like many scientists in this crossover field, Gardner has had
scant formal preparation in biology (one molecular biology class taken as a
college sophomore). "Most biologists thought I was crazy," he said. But at least
one did not: Dr. Charles Cantor, a molecular biologist at Boston University and
a leader of the Human Genome Project. He thought that the idea was promising and
lent laboratory space and guidance.

   Within a year, Gardner had built the switch - fragments of DNA cut and pasted
together and inserted into a bacterial cell, where the switch worked just fine.
The results were reported in the journal Nature in January.

   Other laboratories working on related problems in cell computation and the
design of genetic networks include that of Dr. Stanislas Leibler at Princeton
University, where Dr. Michael Elowitz devised a type of biological clock that
will work within a cell. Elowitz worked on the project as a graduate student and
is now a postdoctoral fellow at Rockefeller University.

   The system consists of four genes put into a bacterium; Elowitz calls it a
genetic circuit. Each of the first three genes inhibits the activity of the next
gene down the line. The fourth gene controls the production of a fluorescent
protein, so the pulses of fluorescence indicate the periodic output of the
clock.

   Elowitz said the output could be viewed as "something like the hands of a
watch." But the biological clock shows a good deal of variation, or signal
noise, he said, so it may need more elaborate molecular controls. "We are
working on the source of the noise," he said. The results of the research are
reported in a January issue of the journal Nature.

   While Elowitz's project is still in the laboratory stage, Gardner and Collins
have started a company called Cellicon Biotechnologies. The name is taken from
the words cell and control and the word silicon, the material the technology may
one day usurp. While their biological switch and extensions of it could have a
future in biocomputing, they said such switches could have immediate results in
gene therapy.

   The current commercial techniques for activating therapeutic genes require
the continual application of a drug to keep the gene active. If a drug could be
used to flip a genetic switch to the on position, and that switch could then
turn on the gene that is needed by the patient, the gene would presumably stay
on until another drug or other signal was used to switch it off. "With the
toggle, which only requires transient delivery to switch the system from off to
on," Collins said, "you would only need to take a drug once, removing the
dependence on sustained drug ingestion."

   Most applications of biological computing are far in the future. The
old-fashioned, silicon-based electronic way is certainly not threatened yet, and
it is in fact integral to the analytical calculations, modeling and simulations
that many of the scientists-turned-biologists do before they get down to bench
work. But one day there may indeed be that unlikely thing, computers in a flask,
and even injectable cells that will travel through the body to help the patient.

   After all, if cells can be made to compute at scientists' bidding, instead of
doing just the computing that nature intended, biological problems are the ones
that cells are most suited to solve.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: (color); Kellye Sanford illustration / Chronicle

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000


                             440 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                             June 16, 2000, Friday

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 028

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: DEADLY CHILDHOOD DISEASE THAT DOCS OVERLOOKED

BYLINE: Hallie Levine

BODY:

   FOR much of her son's short life, Debbie Longo grappled with the hunch that
something was wrong with her child's health.

   Since infancy 4-year-old Christopher had been constantly on antibiotics,
suffering from chronic ear, upper respiratory and strep infections.

   "I always thought there was something more to these illnesses, but since I
got the same diagnosis from so many different physicians, who was I to question
them?" the 40-year-old Shelton, Conn., native recalls with a choke in her voice.

   Then last July the unthinkable happened - without warning, Christopher was
diagnosed with one of the 70 known primary immune (PI) deficiency diseases that
strike hundreds of thousands of Americans.

   Christopher had been outside playing when he developed an abscess on his face
that became infected - and required immediate hospitalization.

   He spent the next two months in and out of medical centers until he ended up
last September at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors finally got to the root
of the problem.

   They diagnosed Christopher with a PI known as Nezelof's syndrome - an
incredibly rare disease that interferes with the functioning of the body's
immune system.

   TWO weeks later, Christopher died.

   Perhaps the most shocking news for Longo and husband Paul after their child's
death was when doctors told them Christopher's disease could have been diagnosed
years earlier - with simple blood tests.

   "I lived for three months watching my son have more holes in his arm and in
his chest than you could ever imagine seeing, watched him have blood
transfusions, antibiotics of every form, watched him being given nutrition
intravenously - to find out that all this could have been spared and he might
have lived," says Longo, her voice muffled by tears. "It was just too much for
me."

   Today, Longo - whose marriage crumbled under the strain of her son's death -
says she's grappling with a combination of guilt, anger and grief over the loss
of her beloved baby.

   And she still can't believe that her son's PI wasn't spotted sooner.

   "I checked with my pediatrician, I checked with pulmonary specialists about
Christopher's asthma, and all I was told was that this was normal, that some
children get sicker than others, and that the ones who get sick more often than
not will turn around and be the healthiest kids imaginable when they hit school
age."

   CHRISTOPHER'S case isn't an isolated one. Doctors say 1 in 500 Americans
suffers from one or more of the known primary immune deficiency diseases, and
it's still estimated that more than 500,000 additional cases go undiagnosed.

   "It affects more children than childhood leukemia and lymphoma combined,"
says Vicky Modell, who founded the Manhattan-based Jeffrey Modell Foundation 13
years ago, after her son, Jeffrey, died of a PI.

   The disease is easy to miss because it presents itself in the symptoms of
"ordinary" childhood illnesses, such as sinus and ear infections, pneumonia and
high fevers.

   This is particularly ironic since most forms of primary immune deficiency can
be diagnosed through a series of simple blood screenings that test immune
function.

   Once diagnosed, doctors have several possible treatments. These range from
low-level doses of antibiotics to gammaglobulin infusions and new treatments
including bone-marrow transplants and gene therapy.

   "Any parent whose child suffers repeat infections that don't respond to
antibiotics and is not growing properly needs to speak up and ask their doctor
to run a complete blood count [CBC], which can pick up any abnormalities and
indicate if future blood tests are needed," says Dr. Rochelle Hirschhorn,
professor of medicine and cell biology at the New York University School of
Medicine.

   Christopher's condition could have been caught at an early age if his doctors
had given him a CBC and picked up on his dangerously low white-blood-cell count.

   Christopher finally had a CBC last July, when he was brought into the local
hospital to treat the abscess on his face, and ended up staying there for weeks
on IV antibiotics.

   WITHIN a month of being admitted to Yale New Haven Hospital in September,
Christopher's white-blood-cell count plummeted to zero, his red-blood-cell count
began to fall, and he developed life-threatening bacterial infections in his
bloodstream.

   Unfortunately, even though subsequent blood tests revealed Christopher had
Nezelof's Syndrome, the diagnosis came too late and he died Oct. 20.

   "He lived in the hospital for three months before his death and he didn't
understand why he was there," Longo says.

   After Christopher's death, Longo learned about the Jeffrey Modell Foundation
via the Internet (www.jmfworld.com) and now works for the organization as a
volunteer, helping to raise money for research into PI and to promote awareness
of the diseases' little-known dangers.

   "It makes me feel better to tell my story," says Longo. "I don't want another
mother to go into a pediatrician's office just to be told that her child will
outgrow their diseases and will be fine.

   "If I can help one mom, it's worth it."


GRAPHIC: -A SHORT, SAD LIFE: Christopher Longo endured years of agony before
doctors diagnosed his primary immune deficiency disease, too late to save him.

   -IN MEMORY OF CHRIS: Debbie Longo wants to make parents aware of the dangers,
saying, "I don't want another mother to go into a pediatrician's office just to
be told that her child will outgrow their diseases and will be fine." Ralph
Petitte

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000


                             441 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     June 15, 2000, Thursday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: REGION BRIEFS;
TRANSKARYOTIC WITNESS CITES EARLY STUDIES

BYLINE: BY RONALD ROSENBERG, GLOBE STAFF

BODY:

   A key witness for Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. in its patent infringement
trial with Amgen Inc. cited early studies that predate Amgen's patents for
Epogen, the company's version of erythropoietin, a hugely successful
anemia-fighting drug.  Dr. Allan Erslev, a medical professor at Thomas Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia, said an Amgen scientist, Dr. Fu Kuen-Lin, was
not the first researcher to isolate erythropoietin or show that it was
therapeutically effective. Erslev's testimony is part of TKT's strategy to show
that discoveries about the drug preceded the December 1983 filing of Amgen's
first patent and that this scientific information, known as prior art, should
not permit Amgen to have exclusive patent protection for Epogen. David Madrid,
an Amgen attorney, also cross-examined Erslev about a 1991 scientific article.
In it, Erslev used the words "clinical trial." On the stand, he said he used the
term incorrectly in the publication, noting that there was sufficient
erythropoietin for use on a patient but not enough for a prolonged examination
of the drug's effectiveness on a broad population of people. The trial resumes
July 5.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000


                             442 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                          Copyright 2000 The Oregonian
                                 The Oregonian

                     JUNE 15, 2000 Thursday SUNRISE EDITION

SECTION: WEST ZONER; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: OHSU'S WESTSIDE CAMPUS ADDS RESEARCH FACILITIES OHSU: CAMPUSPLANNING
INCLUDES LOW AREA IMPACT

SOURCE: DAVID R. ANDERSON of the Oregonian Staff

DATELINE: HILLSBORO

BODY:

   Neurological sciences and vaccine and gene therapy wings will open this year,
and primate center shelters are planned

   Two years into its 20-year master plan, Oregon Health Sciences University
plans to complete a sizable research facility on its west campus by the end of
the year.

   But the campus, which includes the Oregon Regional Primate Research Center,
does not have plans for more big development after it completes new housing for
primates already on the campus. It filed the plans for the animal enclosures
last month with the city.

   In December, OHSU expects to open a $37 million, 100,000-square-foot research
facility near the center of the 263-acre campus, which is north of the MAX
light-rail line and west of Northwest 185th Avenue, said Lesley M. Hallick, vice
president for academic affairs.

   One wing will house the Neurological Sciences Institute. The institute, which
now leases space at Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital in Portland, studies neuro-
science from a broader systems approach rather than on a molecular level. It
includes studies of patients with Parkinson's disease and their motor skills.
The research will be similar to biomechanical engineering.

   The other wing, which will be completed early next year, will house the
Vaccine and Gene Therapy Unit. The group works closely with the primate center
on AIDS models and immune system mechanics.

   The two units will house about 32 faculty members, each heading a research
group of three to eight, about 150 researchers in all, Hallick said.

   The two units will house about 32 faculty members, each heading a research
group of three to eight, about 150 researchers in all, Hallick said.

   In 1998, the Hillsboro City Council approved a master plan for OHSU to expand
its development of the site. The university was able to overcome some concerns,
mainly about whether development would damage natural areas, including wetlands
along Bronson Creek. Animal rights groups also objected to testing at the
primate center.

   The future development should have little effect on the surrounding
neighborhoods, Hallick said. Buildings will not be taller than three stories,
much of the natural area and trees will be preserved, and the development will
not be so dense that it creates much traffic.

   OHSU officials have said in their 20-year plan that the campus someday could
have nearly 2 million square feet of offices, research and classroom facilities.

   "They're ambitious, and it's a long-term plan," Hallick said. "But it's
reasonable."

   Nearly 500,000 square feet of that development will occur on 26 acres near
Northwest 185th Avenue. The balance will be in the central part of the campus,
near the existing primate research facilities. The original plan also called for
1,700 employees by 2014.

   Last month, officials at the Oregon Regional Primate Research Center
submitted plans to Hillsboro for 10 sheltered outdoor animal buildings. The
plans call for heated buildings of 2,740 square feet each.

   The primate center has no immediate plans for other expansion, said P.
Michael Conn, primate center associate director.

   Much of what happens in Hillsboro will depend on a master planning process
going on for OHSU's main campus on Marquam Hill near downtown Portland. Hallick
thinks the next research facility will be constructed in Portland.

   A fund-raising drive also will affect Hillsboro expansion, Hallick said. In
May, OHSU officials announced that they hope to raise $500 million in the next
six years.

   OHSU also would consider joining with a private pharmaceutical or
biotechnology company to build a facility on the campus if the research is
related to OHSU projects, Hallick said.

   "We envision it to be a combination of our own research and that of others,"
Hallick said. "We're very open to those discussions, and they're ongoing."

   You can reach Dave Anderson at 503-221-4388 or by e-mail at
davidanderson@news.oregonian.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo by ROGER JENSEN of The Oregonian staff Graphic - Map - OHSU GROWS

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000


                             443 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     June 13, 2000, Tuesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: RULING WON'T SHAKE UP DRUG-PATENT TRIAL, OBSERVERS SAY

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

   The timing of US District Judge William G. Young's decision - halfway through
a patent-infringement battle between Amgen Inc. and Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.
- to throw out one of Amgen's patents and part of another surprised some local
lawyers. But most agreed it would not tip the balance in the case.

   The trial, now in its third week, revolves around the validity and
enforceability of five patents that protect Epogen, Amgen's version of
erythropoietin, a protein that stimulates the production of red blood cells in
bone marrow.

      Epogen, which is also marketed by Johnson & Johnson under license from
Amgen, of Thousand Oaks, Calif., is the world's best-selling biotech-developed
drug, with $4 billion in sales worldwide. It's made by splicing the human
erythropoietin gene into hamster cells, yielding the protein.

   Transkaryotic Therapies, which is developing its own version of
erythropoietin, relies on human cells and gene-activation technology. Latent
copies of the erythropoietin gene are turned on in human cells grown in a
laboratory culture to produce the drug - a strategy that TKT maintains bypasses
Amgen's production method and patents.

   For Cambridge-based TKT, Young's finding on Friday, which he affirmed
yesterday, is viewed as a small victory, one that could narrow the scope of the
trial, which is being closely watched by biotech patent attorneys.

   "This decision by the judge is, in an emotional sense, a victory for TKT,"
said Kathy Williams, a lawyer at Palmer & Dodge who is observing the trial. "In
some ways, his decision to throw out some of the claims on one patent was not
unexpected." The ruling "is not going to shake the foundation of this trial."

   Other attorneys voiced similar views.

   "Most judges wait until the end of the trial to make rulings, but Judge Young
is pretty confident, especially since he ruled after Amgen rested its case and
concluded that the company did not make its case on the process of producing
erythropoietin in a particular patent," said Thomas J. DesRosier, Genzyme's
senior vice president and chief patent counsel.

   Young eliminated five infringement claims on a single patent that covers the
process of producing erythropoietin, and three claims on another patent that
deals with the sequence of amino accids, the structure of the Epogen, and TKT's
version.

   The judge denied TKT's motion for a judgment that it did not infringe on the
other three patents.

   "This is not in any way a finding against TKT or HMR," Hoechst Marion
Roussel, TKT's pharmaceutical partner, which is now part of Aventis SA], Young
said. "It simply says they can't win today, and I'm going to need evidence and
they'll supply it."

   On Wall Street, Young's decision prompted TKT shares to rise $11.1875 to
$42.0875 Friday, only to fall yesterday to $33.375, down $9.50.

   Amgen's shares fell yesterday $1.625 to $61 a share, after falling $3.0625
Friday to $62.625.

   "I think Wall Street investors reacted too quickly to the judge's decisions,
thinking this is fantastic for TKT, but over the weekend realized that it's a
limited ruling," said Dr. Jonas V. Alsenas, biotech analyst for ING Barings Ltd.

   Alsenas, who believes TKT will prevail in the case, says Judge Young "has
gone more than halfway to see things TKT's way."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000


                             444 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                             June 13, 2000, Tuesday

SECTION: Sport+Late City Final; Pg. 006

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI OPTING OUT OF SURGERY: INSIDERS

BYLINE: David Seifman and Richard Johnson

BODY:

   Mayor Giuliani has decided not to undergo surgery for his prostate cancer,
City Hall insiders said yesterday.

   Ending six weeks of agonizing over his options, Giuliani announced in the
Fox/5 broadcast booth at Friday night's Yankees-Mets game that he had made a
decision - but wasn't ready to announce it.

   The mayor has discussed surgery with Dr. Peter Scardino, head of the
prostate-cancer program at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and a pioneer
in the use of gene therapy, The Post learned.

   Two City Hall insiders said surgery is not in the mayor's game plan.

   "From everything I know, surgery is not the way he's going," said one
insider.

   "You'd be wrong to print that," said the second insider, speaking of surgery.

   Giuliani's choices include surgery; external-beam radiation; radioactive-seed
implantation; and a combination of seed implantation and radiation.

   Surgeons point out that 95 percent of their patients are disease-free after
five years. But radiation oncologists claim seed implants provide the same
survival rate and reduce the chance of impotence and incontinence.

   Giuliani yesterday joined three other top officials, Comptroller Alan Hevesi,
Staten Island Borough President Guy Molinari and Police Commissioner Howard
Safir - all diagnosed with prostate cancer - in urging men to get a simple blood
test every year.

   "The faster and sooner you find out about it, the better your chance of being
able to deal with it in the most effective way possible," the mayor said outside
a privately sponsored mobile medical van that is providing free screenings.

   (The van will be in the city through Sunday. Today, it will be on Liberty
Street between Broadway and Trinity Street, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000


                             445 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             June 12, 2000, Monday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE;Pg. E-10

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Other hopes for opening arteries

BYLINE: Associated Press

BODY:
 Radioactive beads may be doctors' latest tools for keeping arteries open after
angioplasty, but this is unlikely to be the last.  Among other strategies in the
works:

   [] Gene therapy. The goal is to deliver genes during angioplasty that will
shut off the body's impulse to produce clogging regrowth of tissue.

   [] Radioactive stents.  Instead of inserting radioactive material in the
artery and then removing it, a radioactive stent would be left in place to
prevent tissue growth.

   [] Drug-coated stents.  Among the possibilities are stents coated with Taxol,
the chemotherapy drug, and other medicines to kill fast-growing tissue.

   [] X-rays.  Rather then relying on the radioactive isotopes used in cancer
treatment, miniature X-ray beam emitters are being developed as a potentially
easier way to deliver radiation on a catheter.

   [] Medicines.  Studies are under way to see if tranilast, an anti-allergy
drug, can prevent angioplasty failure.

   [] Freezing.  A cold-tipped probe on the end of a catheter might stop growth
in the artery by freezing scar tissue.

   [] Alcohol.  Early human tests suggest that injecting alcohol into the artery
after angioplasty may stun cells, preventing growth.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2000


                             446 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle

                      JUNE 12, 2000, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1; BIOSCOPE

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Stanford Geneticist Contemplates Light Side of Genome Research;

Unraveling secrets of human inheritance has fun applications

BYLINE: Tom Abate

BODY:
The imminent completion of the Human Genome Project is heralded as one of the
greatest achievements in all of science, but Stanford geneticist David Cox likes
to consider the lighter side of this momentous development.

    "Researchers always put forward the medical applications as the prime use
for human genome information, but what about the fun aspects of genetics?" he
wonders aloud.

    As co-director of Stanford's Human Genome Center, part of the federally
funded effort to unravel the secrets of human inheritance, Cox has given serious
thought to how we are likely to use the genetic knowledge we are rapidly
acquiring.

    His guiding precept is the observation that inventors often misjudge the
usefulness of their inventions. Thomas Edison envisioned his phonograph as a
dictation machine. Alexander Graham Bell stumbled onto the telephone while
trying to solve the bandwidth problem of the 19th century: how to cram more
messages through telegraph wires.

    Don't get me wrong. Cox knows genetic data will expedite drug discovery,
disease diagnosis and have other medical uses. He simply thinks we underestimate
the potential for a range of whimsical applications.

    "I think genetics will be the modern day astrology," he says.

    Cox isn't sure how personal genetic profiles will be used for predictive
purposes. Perhaps newspapers in the future will add a new type of genetic
horoscope that will help new couples assess whether their genes dispose them to
fight or flourish.

    Cox doesn't think genetic predictions will pigeonhole people for life --
leading to the sort of genetic determinism portrayed in the movie "Gattaca."

    "Overall, I think people are smart about how they use information," Cox
said. "Genetics will be just one more type of knowledge they'll use to navigate
through their world."

    Speculations of this sort are a form of mental relaxation for Cox who, when
he isn't cranking out science at Stanford, is wrestling with dilemmas as a
member of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission.

    This 18-person panel, established by President Clinton in 1995, advises
federal agencies on issues like cloning or stem cell research that arise in the
course of biomedical experiments.

    Cox -- and his NBAC colleagues -- were in San Francisco last week, grappling
with the question of how to make sure that experiments on humans are conducted
in an ethical fashion.

    Virtually every life-saving advance in medicine today began as an
experimental treatment tried first on animals and later on human subjects.

    The ethics of human experimentation came into sharp focus last year after it
was revealed that researchers at some universities delayed reporting the deaths
of several subjects in gene therapy experiments. It turned out some of the
professors had ties to biotechnology firms, causing concern that their actions
were influenced by financial pressures.

    Dr. Bernie Lo, director of medical ethics at the University of California at
San Francisco and also an NBAC member, says the commission's concerns go far
deeper than the obvious problems of financial conflicts of interest.

    "Our charter is to ask the philosophical questions about how and whether you
can properly do research on human beings," Lo said.

    NBAC spent much of its time last week on the issue of informed consent. In
short, the subject of an experiment should know precisely the risks and benefits
of becoming a human guinea pig, and make a decision freely.

    But that is easier said than done. Lo says cancer patients dramatize the
difficulty of achieving informed consent. Say the patient has gone through all
current treatments to no avail. Their oncologist mentions an experimental
therapy. It's only in Phase I trials, the earliest stage of human testing. Phase
I studies have one objective: to determine how much of a drug the human body can
safely tolerate.

    "But the patients and even the doctors who refer them to the trials think
this will help, when there's very, very little chance that it will," Lo said.

    Is it ethical to let patients grasp at straws? Lo shrugs. Many patients
consider the odds and decide that even if they don't benefit, the experiment may
save lives down the line. But in a world where researchers have stock options,
or even tenure, riding on the outcome of human experiments, a little ethical
hand-wringing seems wise.

    The problems of informed consent become even greater when U.S. researchers
take experiments into developing nations. This may occur because it may be
cheaper to do research abroad, or because the underlying disease may be
prevalent there.

    Cox says a dilemma in international research is applying U.S. norms to
foreign settings. Here, if the subject of an experiment is a woman, the
researcher would naturally seek her informed consent.

    But what if the research is being done in a country where the cultural norm
is that some man -- a father or husband -- speaks for the woman?

    "Do you talk to a woman when, by doing so, you put her in danger of some man
beating the crap out of her?" Cox asks.

    Ultimately, NBAC answers such questions in long reports that it sends to
federal agencies and posts on a Web site (www.bioethics.gov). Whether these
ruminations have any effect on the express train that is biomedical research is
debatable.

    "We're not the ethics police," Cox says.

    No, but maybe they're referees watching from the sidelines.

   GENOME SPECIAL ON TV: The ethical questions arising from human genome
research will be the subject of a PBS special that will air on KQED Sunday at
2:30 p.m.

    Hosted by former NBC newsman Bob Abernethy, the show will discuss the
patenting of human genes, the prospect that parents might genetically alter
their children, and the questions of genetic privacy.


   Look for BioScope every Monday in the Business section. Send your
bio-feedback to Tom Abate by e-mail, abate@sfgate.com; fax, (415) 543-2482; or
phone, (415) 777-6213.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000


                             447 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      June 12, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Report: Rush in human clinical trials can lead to abuse Investigators
cite misleading promotions, researchers recruiting their own patients

BYLINE: Edward T. Pound

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON -- Drug firms, doctors and others are rushing to enroll
participants in human clinical trials, a development that has
led to "disturbing recruitment practices" driven by the big
money that's at stake, federal investigators say.

   In a new report, investigators say abuses of potential subjects
can occur as pharmaceutical companies push to speed up drug development
and quickly recoup investments in research to maximize profits.

   Many research doctors target patients who they see in practice,
which raises troubling conflict of interest questions, investigators
say. They also cite misleading promotions and advertisements in
which researchers promise "treatment" for diseases when, in
fact, they want to use participants in drug trials, many of which
are risky.


   "Recent investigations and complaints reveal disturbing recruitment
practices," says the report, written by investigators for June
Gibbs Brown, the inspector general for the Department of Health
and Human Services. Although investigators didn't say how widespread
problems are, they cite the death of a Pennsylvania teenager in
a gene therapy trial, harassment of potential subjects in another
study and the case of a woman in a nursing home allegedly forced
to participate in a study under threat of expulsion from the home.

   The report says aggressive recruiting might be contributing "to
the erosion of informed consent, the foundation of human-subject
protections."

   The report, due out today, focuses on clinical research funded
by drug companies, which sponsor most research. The industry expects
to spend about $ 26 billion on research and development this year,
triple 10 years ago. In a response, the Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America says its members are "leading the
way in the search for cures."

   Investigators say drug companies offer money and other inducements
to doctors to boost enrollment. In the rush, some researchers
might be enrolling ineligible subjects, the report says. Federal
health officials say they are moving to provide more protections
for participants. Tens of thousands of people participate in trials
for experimental drugs, medical devices and gene therapy.



LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000


                             448 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                             June 11, 2000, Sunday

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: A PIECE OF THE ACTION PROFESSORS AND PROFIT-SHARING

BYLINE: Alice Thomas and David Lore, Dispatch Staff Reporters

BODY:


   Using a sports analogy, bioengineer Mauro Ferrari explained why he left the
high-tech haven of Silicon Valley for Ohio State University.

   "There are some players who want the ball when the game is on the line,''
said Ferrari, a professor and head of OSU's Biomedical Engineering Center. "
It's a big responsibility and one that I am very much excited to take.''

   The comparison is fitting, considering Ohio State's desire to join the big
leagues of university research.

   Ferrari is one of the stars recruited by OSU in recent years in its bid to
break into the top 10 of American research universities, a goal not easily
reached without top talent and the millions of research dollars they can
attract.

   A major barrier, however, has been the inability of OSU -- and other state-
supported universities in Ohio -- to give faculty members a larger piece of the
action when they succeed in building a business out of their research.

   In signing legislation last week that will help remove legal barriers to
faculty profit-sharing, Gov. Bob Taft called the occasion historic, marking the
beginning of an era in Ohio's attempt to compete in technology-dominated
markets.

   But marrying sluggish university bureaucracies to the world of fast- paced
technology is an experiment in itself -- one with which Ohio has had little
success.

   Trying to commercialize research through university channels is a hassle,
professors at OSU and other public universities say, noting that the state has
lost out on many business opportunities stemming from cutting-edge research.

   "Our problem is not so much that our technology doesn't get commercialized -
- it just doesn't get commercialized in Ohio,'' said Frank Kelley, dean of the
College of Polymer Science and Polymer Engineering at University of Akron.

   Polymer science includes the creation of plastics and other materials for
industrial and commercial uses. Kelley's top-ranked program is the largest of
its kind in the nation.

   The 5 percent limit

   The new law allows faculty members to have increased ownership in -- and thus
profit from -- businesses that are created out of their research. Until now,
faculty members with more than a 5 percent ownership in a company doing business
with their universities were considered to have a conflict of interest.

   Such restrictions once were seen as necessary to prevent researchers from
using taxpayer-financed labs and equipment for private gain or from letting
their financial interests distort their research findings. Since 1995, faculty
members have had to disclose all outside holdings or sources of income as a
safeguard against abuse.

   Although the new law requires disclosure, it lets universities sort out the
conflicts. The law is intended to make Ohio competitive with other states.

   "My anecdotal evidence is that Ohio is one of the most conservative states in
the union,'' said Harry Andrist, former vice provost at Cleveland State
University and now director of research and graduate programs for the Ohio Board
of Regents.

   Professors who start companies provide a great "reputational value'' for
universities, said David N. Allen, OSU's assistant vice president for technology
partnerships.

   They also provide a greater potential for profits.

   Ferrari, who left the University of California-Berkeley in 1988 to bring his
lab to OSU, is an emerging star in using nanotechnology to engineer drug-
delivery systems.

   His current focus involves inserting swarms of hair-thin "bionic chips'' into
the body for the treatment of diabetes or cancer. Thousands of these smart chips
inside the body of a diabetic, for example, could monitor glucose levels and
control the release of insulin while avoiding the rejection problems inherent in
the transplant of pancreatic cells.

   Ferrari is an energetic, passionate scientist whose entrepreneurial edge is
tempered with a personal touch: He lost his first wife to cancer.

   OSU is betting that his company, iMEDD, will demonstrate how lab science can
be integrated into the marketplace.

   Such hopes have been dashed before.

   Not much of a choice

   In 1993, Douglas Kniss, director of OSU's Laboratory on Perinatal Research,
co-founded a company that sought to develop a drug to prevent premature births.
Approved by university officials, PreComp at the time was considered a precedent
for future faculty business ventures.

   OSU, however, told Kniss that as a public employee he had to choose between a
5 percent interest in PreComp or future royalties. Kniss said he picked the
latter.

   "Even though the company was my brainchild, I could not own it,'' he said. "
The university as a large public institution was unwilling to take any risk and
played it very conservatively.''

   PreComp, he said, exists as a "virtual company'' but has not produced a drug
eligible for medical trials.

   In 1996, molecular geneticist Alan Lambowitz, an eminent scholar recruited to
upgrade OSU's genetics programs, received special authorization from university
trustees to share ownership in Genetic Integration Technologies. The company
grew out of Lambowitz's research on primitive forms of genetic material called
introns, or junk DNA, which could be helpful in gene therapy.

   But it took about a year -- and the signatures of about 10 administrators --
to obtain approval, Lambowitz said.

   "There were all these different people involved, and nobody wanted to take
responsibility,'' he said. "So they kept appointing new committees to deal with
it.''

   In addition, Lambowitz said, "Ohio proved to be a particularly poor place to
get venture capital,'' which is key to funding start-ups.

   Such drawbacks, coupled with OSU's failure to expand its molecular biology
programs, persuaded Lambowitz to leave OSU in 1997 for the University of Texas.
Faculty business ventures are more common in Austin, he said, and thus posed
fewer hurdles to bringing his business, InGEX, into being.

   Mark Muller, OSU professor of molecular genetics, established two successful
businesses but chose to keep them separate from the university to avoid
entanglements, he said.

   During the 1980s, Muller conceived the idea of marketing diagnostic kits to
researchers and doctors to assist them in determining how individuals will react
to cancer drugs.

   "I went to the university in 1987 or 1988 and gave them first refusal, but
the university indicated it wasn't really interested,'' he said. "So I started
my own company in the early 1990s.''

   That company, TopoGEN, operates out the Columbus Business Technology Center
in the OSU Science and Technology Campus but otherwise has no ties to the
university, Muller said. A software company in which he also has an interest,
Visual Geonomics, began in the same way, he said.

   "My companies are making money and still going strong.''

   Playing it safe

   Some public universities interpreted the old law differently.

   While OSU and Ohio University allowed such ventures under the

   5 percent cap, most others avoided faculty-owned businesses altogether.

   Either way, the result was an atmosphere of caution that ran counter to the
entrepreneurial spirit.

   "At Cleveland State, people were just told to stay clear of that,'' Andrist
said.

   The new law waives the 5 percent limit for researchers, a change that Ohio
State's Allen thinks will allow faculty members equity in the 10 percent to 20
percent range.

   The waiver is considered only a first step. Now the universities have to be
better -- and faster -- in dealings not only with faculty members but with
business and venture-capital firms.

   Start-ups "are a small thing in relation to other things the university wants
to be good at,'' Allen said.

   Still, "If you don't do this right, you won't attract the new breed of
faculty,'' he said.

   Changing the law doesn't necessarily change the climate for such ventures.

   "The Midwest in general has spent so much time digging itself out of the Rust
Belt economy and modernizing that it didn't have time to focus on how it would
generate the new high-paying jobs,'' said Luis Proenza, president of the
University of Akron.

   "All of those are in high technology in areas that are being born every day
out of basic research, most of which is done at universities.''

   Missed chances

   Akron hasn't allowed professors to start businesses based on their university
research. As a result, it has lost out on opportunities in polymer research,
Kelley said.

   In one instance, a film developed by University of Akron professors made the
liquid-crystal displays easier to read on products such as calculators and
computer screens. It was licensed to Rockwell International for manufacture,
Kelley said.

   "We would have been inclined to produce that polymer (plastic) in a start- up
company in which the professors who developed it, as well as the university, had
ownership,'' Kelley said. "But that was not allowed by Ohio law.''

   An exception has been the Edison Biotechnology Institute at Ohio University
in Athens, a hotbed by Ohio standards for high-tech start-ups.

   Five companies spun out of OU during the 1990s to commercialize drugs,
diagnostic kits and gene- transfer techniques developed at the center. Of these,
three still operate, said OU Research Vice President John Bantle.

   Sensus Drug Development, developed by OU researcher John Kopchick, is
awaiting Federal Drug Administration approval of a drug that came out of
research on ways to control growth hormones. The FDA is considering the drug for
the treatment of acromegaly, the excess growth of bones in the head, hands and
feet. The drug might also be useful to treat diabetic eye and kidney disease and
some forms of cancer.

   Kopchick was limited to a 5 percent interest in Sensus but found that OU's
experience with earlier biotech ventures made approval of his company relatively
quick and painless.

   "Ohio University wanted this company to be formed and go about its business,
'' Kopchick said. "(Administrators) didn't want to hold it back.

   "I saw the potential for conflict of interest, but I thought 5 percent was
small compared to what was going on in the biotech industry in the 1980s. In
some cases, faculty held up to 50 percent interest in these new companies.''

   Ferrari praises the support of Ohio State and the community at large. He said
start-up at Ohio State hasn't been easy.

   "I've spent many months negotiating something that should be standard,''
Ferrari said. "You want to be able to go to an office and take care of it.''

   At Berkeley, starting cutting-edge companies not only was the norm for
science professors, it was expected, Ferarri said.

   Derek J. Hansford, an assistant professor of biomedical and material science
engineering, said he came to OSU from Berkeley because of Ferrari. But Hansford,
who also has noticed the slower pace here, said the new biomedical engineering
department is under the gun.

   "If you take your time and just build up the infrastructure before you
develop the research, you get left behind. You lose momentum compared to the
other schools that already have it.''

GRAPHIC: Phot, (1) J.A. Smith / Ohio University Researcher John Kopchick says
Ohio University was easy to work with when he sought approval for his company.
(2) Tom Dodge / Dispatch Ohio State bioengineer Mauro Ferrari and one of his
"bionic chips'' developed for the treatment of diabetes or cance

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000


                             449 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 11, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Page 80; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Tech 2010: #20 No Surprises;
The Genetic Report Card That Will Tell You If Your Embryo Will Get Prostate
Cancer

BYLINE: By Maggie Jones

BODY:

   In the next decade, a baby's first checkup won't be in the pediatrician's
office. It will be in the petri dish while she's an eight-cell embryo no bigger
than a dust speck.

   We are a long way from designing children with button noses, blond hair and
150 I.Q.'s. But by 2010, geneticists say they'll be able to predict babies'
propensities for many of the diseases we dread most: breast, colon and prostate
cancer, heart disease, diabetes.

   The key will be a DNA chip. With one amplified droplet of DNA, a
thumbnail-size chip will be able to vet embryos for hundreds of genetic
diseases.

    The rudiments of embryo screening exist today in a rare procedure called
preimplantation genetic diagnosis, or P.G.D. At a handful of labs, doctors can
diagnose certain genetic diseases in an embryo before deciding whether to
implant the embryo in the womb. Candidates for P.G.D. are usually families who
already have a child suffering a severe genetic illness or who have aborted a
fetus after learning of a gene mutation. But the procedure is expensive (about
$12,000 to $15,000, including the cost of in vitro fertilization) and
time-consuming. After a woman's eggs are removed from her ovaries and
fertilized, a geneticist punctures each egg's coating and, with a glass needle,
sucks out an embryo cell one-seventh the width of a hair. The geneticist then
isolates a specific gene, amplifies it and looks for the presence or absence of
a mutation.

   P.G.D. is still in its infancy: geneticists analyze only one gene at a time,
and there are only several dozen tests available -- sickle cell anemia, cystic
fibrosis, fragile X syndrome among them -- most of which are for severe
childhood disorders. But two coming advances promise to change that. Over the
next decade, according to Dr. Charles Strom, director of medical genetics at the
Illinois Masonic Medical Center in Chicago, research will usher in hundreds of
new tests for genetic diseases, including adult-onset illnesses like various
cancers, Alzheimer's, hypertension, kidney disease and schizophrenia. And by
that time, labs expect to have DNA chips capable of reading hundreds or even
thousands of genes simultaneously from a single embryo cell. The result: it will
ultimately be as easy and inexpensive to run several hundred genetic tests as
one.

   Based on current biochip technology, the dime-size chip will resemble a
computer circuit board with an intricate maze of gene patterns for diseases.
When the embryo's DNA binds to a specific pattern, that segment of the chip will
change color (from, say, red to green) -- signaling an aberrant gene sequence. A
scanner will then read the matched patterns and feed the results to a computer.
In minutes, the computer will spit out the embryo's genetic report card.

   Consumers for P.G.D. will presumably grow incrementally. Expectant parents
who have tested positive for specific gene mutations will sign on first, then
infertile couples undergoing in vitro fertilization and eventually, couples
capable of traditional baby-making. "There's a group of parents who will say to
themselves: 'The old ways of giving birth were risky and we're not going to take
those risks. We've got to do I.V.F. and do the best we can for our kid,"' says
Philip Kitcher, author of "The Lives to Come: The Genetic Revolution and Human
Possibilities" and a professor of philosophy at Columbia. And by the 22nd
century, doing the best for your kid may include gene therapy -- or "fixing" the
imperfect eggs by replacing bad genes with good ones. For the near future,
however, expectant parents may wrestle with these genetic forecasts. Since
everyone carries at least several mutations, no embryo will emerge from DNA
screening with a perfect score. And most mutations suggest a propensity, not a
guarantee, for a disease. So, how to choose? Which embryo is preferable -- the
one with a likelihood for colon cancer or the one with a propensity for
diabetes? And what about the embryo with a breast cancer gene? Keep it and hope
for a cure? Or toss the whole batch and start over again? The preoccupations of
today's parents about car seats, strollers and breast-feeding will seem quaint
by comparison.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tom Schierlitz)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000


                             450 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 11, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Page 56; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Tech 2010: #03 Imbue Your Hue;
The Makeup That Changes Your Identity

BYLINE: By Devin Friedman

BODY:

   People are willing to put up with almost anything to make themselves a
different color. In order to get a bit darker, we're happy to lounge in
claustrophobic boxes irradiating ourselves with carcinogenic light or liberally
apply self-tanners that oxidize our epidermis like the flesh of a peeled apple.
We strip off layers of skin with chemicals to make ourselves lighter, shoot
lasers at our dark patches and spread thick "blending" makeup over our white
spots. Dr. James Nordlund, an expert on the human pigmentary system, offers this
explanation: "People are weird." And he thinks we haven't yet begun to plumb the
depths of our strange desires. Wait 10 or 15 years, he says, when we might walk
into the drugstore, buy a cream that's able to flip our pigmenting mechanism on
or off and get as dark or light as we want.

   The coming skin-tone revolution can arguably be traced back to events
transpiring in the bathroom of a ranch-style home owned by Mac Hadley in the
desert Southwest in 1984. It was an auspicious moment for Hadley, a professor of
anatomy and cell biology at the University of Arizona medical school. For the
previous 20 years, Hadley had been on the trail of that dermatological holy
grail known as the "inside-out tan" -- take a pill that prompts prodigious
manufacture of melanin in your skin, and in three weeks you're an even, tawny,
St. Tropez bronze.

    Simplified, the pigmenting process works as follows: nestled between the
dermis and epidermis are a collection of cells called melanocytes, which act as
tiny skin-color factories. The sun's rays galvanize hormones like melanocyte
stimulating hormone (M.S.H.), which in turn stimulates melanocytes to produce
melanin, small packages of pigment. Melanocytes then inject the melanin into
other skin cells called keratinocytes. The keratinocytes get darker and move up
toward the surface, and you soon look better in white shirts.

   Over several decades, Hadley and his research colleagues engineered a
synthetic molecule that is a thousand times more powerful than M.S.H., and in
1984 Hadley thought it was ready for trials on humans. So he injected himself
with it one afternoon. Three weeks later he looked in his bathroom mirror, and
staring back at him was this other Hadley with, yes, beach-ready brown skin.
Unfortunately, this other Hadley was also 10 pounds lighter and had a very
un-beach-ready case of priapism -- the dread perpetual erection. Besides
touching off a surge of research into appetite suppression and dependable,
M.S.H.-induced erections, Hadley's breakthroughs have initiated a sort of race
race. Tanning, or whatever it's called when it's done from inside, is a complex
process, and for the last 15 years scientists have held the melanocyte up to the
light and looked at it from every angle. But the most promising research traces
itself back to Hadley's bathroom.

   "The first breakthrough will be a skin-lightening inhibitor that you will use
topically, so that you don't affect the melanocytes inside the eyes or ears or
anywhere else," Nordlund says. Nordlund is a professor in the University of
Cincinnati's department of dermatology and an editor of the definitive textbook
on the pigmentary system. "I'd say that'll happen in 10 years, maybe a little
more. In about 15 years, you'll have topical stimulators, which will be able to
make the skin as dark as you want. The next breakthrough will be inhibitors and
stimulators that you can ingest, which will work systemically. The major problem
that needs solving before that can happen is that there are five kinds of M.S.H.
receptors in the body -- in the brain and immune system and the like -- and
that's why appetite, erectile function and organs are influenced. And in order
to be truly effective, you've got to be able to target only the receptors in the
skin melanocytes. In 25 years or so, I'd say, they'll have done that and you'll
be able to take a pill that can make a dark-skinned person as light as he or she
wants, and a light-skinned person can become much darker than is possible
today."

   First-generation stimulators and inhibitors would take about a month to work
and would effect a change in color that would last roughly as long as a tan.
You'd have to apply them every so often thereafter if you wanted to maintain
your new color. This may have its benefits. Melanin protects our skin cells,
acting as a sort of natural sunscreen against ultraviolet light. But researchers
warn that manipulating melanocytes may damage the melanocytes' DNA, causing
melanoma, the most lethal form of skin cancer. And the drugs would have their
limitations. Extremely fair people would have a difficult time becoming dark
because their melanin factories are genetically lazy. They'd have to wait for
gene therapy, which isn't as far away as you might think.

   Robert Hoffman, the president of a San Diego-based biotech firm called
AntiCancer Inc., has already been able to deliver a nonmutated gene to albino
mice, causing them to grow dark hair. Hair and skin are colored by similar
mechanisms, and researchers think it's possible that in the next 50 years we'll
be able to buy gene cream, rub the stuff on and a few days later, presto: we're
two-weeks-in-Bali black or Gwyneth Paltrow white.

   We've long been preoccupied with the notion of passing, but once we're able
to pick our hue, passing may not be as relevant a concept. It's impossible to
know what effect skin tinting will have in our racially charged culture. Perhaps
skin color -- especially the more subtle variations -- might be less closely
associated with class or status. Maybe it will become more of a symbol of
fashion or protest or cancer prevention. To a certain extent, we're already
heading down that road -- even today loads of Japanese kids are tanning
themselves deep brown, teasing their hair into afros and listening to rap music
in an odd tribute to hip-hop culture.

   Of course, we shouldn't underestimate the resiliency of race. A dark Japanese
kid will look a lot like a dark Japanese kid; a white Somali won't look like a
Swede. We've long found comfort in thinking we know people just by looking at
them. But Mac Hadley makes an interesting point: people in Africa tend to want
to be lighter and people in Europe tend to want to be darker. So perhaps,
someday, we'll meet in the middle and live the rest of our days as one, vast,
brownish people.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Rebecca Pierce)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000


                             451 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                      June 10, 2000 Saturday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS IN BRIEF

BODY:

   Transkaryotic wins skirmish

   Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. of Cambridge scored a preliminary victory
yesterday in its patent battle against Amgen Inc., although the trial over
whether Transkaryotic can sell a rival version of Amgen's anemia drug Epogen
will continue.

   Judge William G. Young said he wouldn't consider one of Amgen's several
patent claims and part of another in dispute in the case.

   -  BLOOMBERG NEWS

   Raytheon to pay

   Raytheon Co. said yesterday that it has agreed to pay $ 1.06 million to the
government to resolve charges that electronic components were shipped from its
Quincy plant without being properly tested. The company disciplined 26 workers
and dismissed 17 in 1997 after a yearlong probe into the matter.

   - HERALD STAFF

   GE lands deal

   The Italian government has chosen an engine manufactured by General Electric
to power a fleet of military helicopters, the company announced yesterday.

   The estimated value of the engine order is $ 300 million, the company said.
-- ASSOCIATED PRESS

   AT&T retains plans

   AT&T Corp. is standing by plans to restructure its basic long-distance
calling rates, which include some increases similar to ones the company withdrew
earlier this week amid protests from regulators and consumers.

   - ASSOCIATED PRESS

   Correction

   A picture caption in yesterday's Herald misidentified a man who works for
Dirtpile.com. Shown was Scott Williamson, not Dirtpile's owner, Jay Cashman.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2000


                             452 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                            June 10, 2000, Saturday

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: GRANTS AID RESEARCH IN OHIO ON ANIMALS

BYLINE: ErinMarie McKinney, Dispatch Staff Reporter

BODY:


   From dogs and cats to mountain gorillas and llamas, the Morris Animal
Foundation helps find ways to improve animals' lives and save endangered
species.

   The foundation, a 52-year-old nonprofit organization, supports animal- health
studies at veterinary institutions around the world, including in Columbus.

   The Morris Animal Foundation is holding its annual meeting this week at the
Adam's Mark Hotel, 50 N. 3rd St. The event, which began Wednesday, runs through
today.

   During the past 40 years, the foundation, based in Englewood, Colo., has
funded 73 animal-health studies in Ohio with grants totaling about $ 982,000.

   Dr. Robert Hilsenroth, executive director of the foundation, said the
organization relies on contributions from individuals and corporations.

   It's funding four studies in Ohio, two each at the Ohio State University
College of Veterinary Medicine and the Cincinnati Zoo.

   At OSU, veterinarians are using gene therapy to treat anemia in cats
suffering from chronic kidney failure, Hilsenroth said. The condition, which can
be fatal, is a common problem in older cats.

   One of the zoo's studies also has a feline focus. It involves freezing
reproductive tissue from the spayings of domestic cats, Hilsenroth said.
Veterinarians are testing the tissue in an effort to learn ways to help
endangered cats reproduce, he said.

   "There are 37 species of cats, and the only one that isn't threatened or
endangered are domestic cats,'' Hilsenroth said. "This study will help prevent
the extinction of endangered cats in the world.''

   The zoo's other study uses the same freezing method but involves Diana
monkeys. The monkeys are one of the most-endangered primates in Africa because
their large size and noisiness make them easy targets for hunters, Hilsenroth
said.

   Their breeding in North American and European zoos has had limited success.
Veterinarians at the Cincinnati Zoo are working to develop methods to freeze and
thaw Diana monkey sperm.

   The foundation also is funding a study at OSU on the effects of early
castration on bone growth in llamas. Hilsenroth said results of the study will
help veterinarians determine the best time to castrate young llamas.

   Hilsenroth said the foundation routinely funds 25-30 ongoing studies.

   It also has worked closely with the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium's Partners in
Conservation mountain gorilla program, said zoo Director Gerald Borin.

   "It's a very dedicated organization,'' Borin said. "They are very well-
thought-of in the zoo community.''

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000


                             453 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 June 10, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Drugmaker Wins a Round In Patent Case With Rival

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

BODY:

   Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. won a round in its patent fight with the
biotechnology giant Amgen Inc. yesterday when a judge ruled that Transkaryotic
did not infringe on one of Amgen's patents covering its best- selling drug.

   But company executives and analysts said that the ruling, by Judge William G.
Young of the Federal District Court in Boston, did not disqualify other Amgen
patents and that the trial still had several weeks to go.

    Amgen has accused Transkaryotic and its partner, Aventis S.A., a European
drug company, of infringing five patents covering erythropoietin. The drug is an
anemia treatment and has global sales of $4 billion a year, mostly by Amgen and
its licensee, Johnson & Johnson. Transkaryotic and Aventis contend they produce
the drug using a method that differs from that used by Amgen.

   Erythropoietin stimulates the production of red blood cells and is used to
treat anemia in patients undergoing kidney dialysis or cancer chemotherapy.
Amgen produces the drug by splicing the human erythropoietin gene into hamster
cells, which then produce the protein. Transkaryotic turns on the gene for
erythropoietin that is present in all human cells but normally dormant. The
switched-on human cells are grown in a culture to produce the drug.

   Yesterday's ruling came after Transkaryotic and Aventis argued that Amgen,
which had finished presenting its case, had not proved it, and asked that
infringement charges on three of the five patents be thrown out.

   Judge Young ruled that Transkaryotic and Aventis had not infringed one patent
dealing with Amgen's process of producing erythropoietin. On a second patent
dealing with the structure of the drug, he ruled that Transkaryotic had not
literally infringed on the patent because its version of erythropoietin has one
less amino acid than Amgen's. He left open the possibility, however, that he
might later find that difference insignificant. He declined to declare
noninfringement on the third patent. He also said that the rulings might be
revised over the weekend.

   In April, Judge Young ruled that Transkaryotic had infringed one of Amgen's
patents. Since Amgen needs to prove infringement on only one patent to block
Transkaryotic from selling the drug, Transkaryotic must now prove in trial that
the patent is invalid or unenforceable.

   The ruling yesterday "narrows the scope" of what Transkaryotic must do to win
the case, said Eric Schmidt, an analyst with SG Cowen. But he added: "It's still
very, very early. I don't know if you can say that anyone is winning."

   Shares of Transkaryotic soared $11.1875, or 35 percent, yesterday, closing at
$42.875.. Amgen's stock fell $3.0625, or 4.7 percent, to $62.625.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2000


                             454 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            June 10, 2000, Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS;Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

BODY:
 SAN DIEGO AND CALIFORNIA

   IDGB sells Arco unit

   IDG Books Worldwide of Foster City has sold its Arco brand of
test-preparation books to the Peterson's unit of Thomson Learning for an
undisclosed amount.  Arco is best known for its SAT-prep and
professional-certification titles.  IDGB publishes how-to and computer-based
learning books, including the "For Dummies" series and Cliffs Notes.

   WORLD AND NATION

   Flight attendants protest

   A week into a nationwide strike against Aeromexico, flight attendants
protested yesterday at airport counters in Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey,
Cancun and Tijuana.  To prevent the attendants from paralyzing air traffic,
government administrators have taken over the airline and ordered about 1,500
striking attendants to stay on the job or be replaced.

   McDonald's shares off 10%

   Shares of McDonald's were down 10 percent in heavy trading yesterday as the
fast-food company reported that sales growth slowed in May. Shares fell $3.375
to $32 on the New York Stock Exchange on volume of 10 million shares, compared
with average daily volume of 4.1 million.  Earlier in the session, the stock
dipped to as low as $31.625, near the 52-week low of $29.813 set March 7.
Systemwide sales for the first five months of 2000 rose 7 percent to $16.17
billion, down from 9 percent growth in the first four months.

   Junk bond funds grow

   High-yield mutual funds saw inflows of $662 million in the week that ended
Wednesday, as calculated by AMG Data Services.  It was only the third week of
net inflows this year.  Money managers have seen inflows of about $100 million
for one week in February and $100 million for one week in May. Since the
beginning of the year, a total of $5 billion has flowed out of high-yield
portfolios.  Junk bonds have been hurt by more bankruptcies, a prolonged lack of
liquidity and rising interest rates.

   Abbott Labs sets buyback

   Abbott Laboratories plans to buy back up to 25 million of its outstanding
shares, or as much as $1 billion in stock.  The pharmaceuticals company has
about 1.5 billion shares outstanding, of which the 25 million would be as much
as 2 percent.  The company's stock ended regular trading yesterday at $40.813 on
the New York Stock Exchange, up 18.8 cents, or 0.5 percent.  The buyback will
take place over an unspecified time.

   Judge decided against Amgen

   A federal judge in Boston has issued a tentative ruling dismissing several
patent-related claims that the biotech Amgen brought against rival Transkaryotic
Therapies over Amgen's best-selling product, an anemia treatment that generates
billions of dollars in sales a year.  The claims in question relate to one of
five patents that Amgen says Transkaryotic Therapies violated in the production
of erythropoietin, which is used to combat anemia.  TKT's stock gained
yesterday, rising above an already strong biotech sector.  It closed at $42.88,
up $11.19. Amgen's shares fell $3.01 to close at $62.63.

   Fidelity, Lehman see no merger

   Fidelity Investments, the No. 1 U.S. mutual fund company, and investment bank
Lehman Brothers said yesterday they had no plans to turn their existing alliance
into a full-scale merger.  Fidelity and Lehman spokesmen played down a report in
the Wall Street Journal that Lehman executives are pondering a more formal
link-up with the Boston-based Fidelity and even have drawn up plans on what a
combined company might look like.

   Raytheon settles with U.S.

   Raytheon has agreed to pay more than $1 million to settle federal claims that
it failed to do quality control tests on electronic products it sold the
government.  The company also agreed to fire or otherwise punish 26 employees
and the senior management in its Quincy, Mass., plant.  There was no evidence
the products were defective, the government said.

   Phone firms plan to merge

   Three privately held local phone companies have announced plans to merge,
forming a regional system that would stretch from Maine to Florida.  Cavalier
Telephone, Conversent Communications and Florida Digital Network plan to create
a company to be called Elantic Communications.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000


                             455 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             June 10, 2000 Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

BODY:

   SAN DIEGO AND CALIFORNIA IDGB sells Arco unit IDG Books Worldwide of Foster
City has sold its Arco brand of test-preparation books to the Peterson's unit of
Thomson Learning for an undisclosed amount.

   Arco is best known for its SAT-prep and professional-certification titles.

   IDGB publishes how-to and computer-based learning books, including the "For
Dummies" series and Cliffs Notes. WORLD AND NATION Flight attendants protest A
week into a nationwide strike against Aeromexico, flight attendants protested
yesterday at airport counters in Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Cancun and
Tijuana.

   To prevent the attendants from paralyzing air traffic, government
administrators have taken over the airline and ordered about 1,500 striking
attendants to stay on the job or be replaced. McDonald's shares off 10% Shares
of McDonald's were down 10 percent in heavy trading yesterday as the fast-food
company reported that sales growth slowed in May. Shares fell $3.375 to $32 on
the New York Stock Exchange on volume of 10 million shares, compared with
average daily volume of 4.1 million.

   Earlier in the session, the stock dipped to as low as $31.625, near the
52-week low of $29.813 set March 7. Systemwide sales for the first five months
of 2000 rose 7 percent to $16.17 billion, down from 9 percent growth in the
first four months. Junk bond funds grow High-yield mutual funds saw inflows of
$662 million in the week that ended Wednesday, as calculated by AMG Data
Services.

   It was only the third week of net inflows this year.

   Money managers have seen inflows of about $100 million for one week in
February and $100 million for one week in May. Since the beginning of the year,
a total of $5 billion has flowed out of high-yield portfolios.

   Junk bonds have been hurt by more bankruptcies, a prolonged lack of liquidity
and rising interest rates. Abbott Labs sets buyback Abbott Laboratories plans to
buy back up to 25 million of its outstanding shares, or as much as $1 billion in
stock.

   The pharmaceuticals company has about 1.5 billion shares outstanding, of
which the 25 million would be as much as 2 percent.

   The company's stock ended regular trading yesterday at $40.813 on the New
York Stock Exchange, up 18.8 cents, or 0.5 percent.

   The buyback will take place over an unspecified time. Judge decided against
Amgen A federal judge in Boston has issued a tentative ruling dismissing several
patent-related claims that the biotech Amgen brought against rival Transkaryotic
Therapies over Amgen's best-selling product, an anemia treatment that generates
billions of dollars in sales a year.

   The claims in question relate to one of five patents that Amgen says
Transkaryotic Therapies violated in the production of erythropoietin, which is
used to combat anemia.

   TKT's stock gained yesterday, rising above an already strong biotech sector.

   It closed at $42.88, up $11.19. Amgen's shares fell $3.01 to close at $62.63.
Fidelity, Lehman see no merger Fidelity Investments, the No. 1 U.S. mutual fund
company, and investment bank Lehman Brothers said yesterday they had no plans to
turn their existing alliance into a full-scale merger.

   Fidelity and Lehman spokesmen played down a report in the Wall Street Journal
that Lehman executives are pondering a more formal link-up with the Boston-based
Fidelity and even have drawn up plans on what a combined company might look
like. Raytheon settles with U.S. Raytheon has agreed to pay more than $1 million
to settle federal claims that it failed to do quality control tests on
electronic products it sold the government.

   The company also agreed to fire or otherwise punish 26 employees and the
senior management in its Quincy, Mass., plant.

   There was no evidence the products were defective, the government said. Phone
firms plan to merge Three privately held local phone companies have announced
plans to merge, forming a regional system that would stretch from Maine to
Florida. Cavalier Telephone, Conversent Communications and Florida Digital
Network plan to create a company to be called Elantic Communications.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007


                             456 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                     Christian Science Monitor (Boston, MA)

                            June 7, 2000, Wednesday

SECTION: USA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: As gene map nears, big questions

BYLINE: By Laurent Belsie, Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

HIGHLIGHT:
First draft of the human genome is hailed for its medical promise. But ethics
and theology are also at stake.

BODY:



   Not since Charles Darwin put forward his theory of evolution have natural
scientists sparked such broad rethinking of that bedrock question: What is man?

Geneticists' unveiling of the first complete sequence of the human genetic code
- expected sometime this month - is already causing a stir in the fields of
medicine and law. Ultimately, this scientific breakthrough, like Darwin's
bombshell, could challenge fixed social and theological ideas about humanity and
its place in the universe.

Troubling ethical questions - such as eugenics for the unborn and genetic
profiling for health insurance - are only the beginning. In mapping the human
body's genetic code, researchers are framing a new context for an age-old
debate: Is human nature the product of free will or predestination?

"The mapping information is going to help us rethink a whole lot of issues, such
as privacy, confidentiality, ownerships of body parts," says Tom Shannon,
professor of religion and social ethics at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and
author of a new book on the subject. "It's really going to reshape how we think
about each other."

For the medical profession, such changes will take time.

For one thing, the sequence is so long - some 3 billion parts - someone would
have to spend more than 47 years round the clock merely to write it out. For
another, the sequence that researchers hope to unveil this month will still be a
working draft - incomplete and filled with small errors - that might not be
finalized until 2003.

Even then, scientists won't understand the genome.

"Imagine that you have the entire works of Shakespeare in front of you, with no
spaces and no grammar, and you don't know English," explains Betsey Dyer, a
genetics researcher and biology professor at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass.
That's what the complete sequence will look like. It could take decades to crack
it.

Still, the complete sequence will mark a new plateau in scientific
understanding. Two research teams - privately funded Celera Genomics in
Rockville, Md., and a much larger publicly funded effort by academic,
government, and foreign researchers - are racing to complete the sequence.

"It will revolutionize information about how our bodies work, how our bodies
develop. It will lead to drugs and products that cure disease and prevent
illness in the first place," says Michael Werner, bioethics counsel for the
Biotechnology Industry Organization in Washington.

Already, it is shaking the legal profession, particularly in areas of patents
and privacy.

Owning genetic keys

For starters, should companies own pieces of the human genetic code?

"The ability to obtain patent rights on human genome information can be
incredibly commercially valuable," says Elizabeth Weiswasser, partner in the
international law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, headquartered in New York
City.

The United States has offered patents on gene sequences for years. What's new,
she says, are mass efforts at sequencing, which portend a flood of patents and
court challenges as companies jockey for commercial advantage.

Privacy represents another looming legal tangle.

If doctors, armed with an individual's genetic code, eventually believe they can
diagnose that a person in his 20s will incur a life-threatening disease in his
50s, who should know that information? The person? His relatives? His employer
or insurer?

"We're not interested in genetic testing," says Herb Perone of the American
Council of Life Insurers in Washington. But if such testing becomes routine
medical practice, "we don't want to be denied basic information in the future."

Evidence of actual discrimination in the workplace remains mostly anecdotal.
When the American Management Association surveyed more than 1,000 of its members
last year, only three said they used genetic testing on employees or job
applicants.

But already, a national women's advocacy group, the National Partnership for
Women & Families, is warning women about how data gleaned from genetic testing
can be used against them. In February, President Clinton prohibited federal
agencies from using such data to hire, fire, or promote federal workers. At
least two dozen states offer spotty protection against genetic discrimination,
but there's no federal standard.

Such questions stretch far beyond the legal realm, ethicists say. For people
diagnosed with a fatal disease that's years away, "how do you live your life?"
Professor Shannon asks. "If this child is fated to die, does that mean the child
is going to be rejected - a kind of genetic leprosy? ... It's putting the whole
question of human mortality in a much different perspective."

Scanning the unborn

One of the first debates will erupt over the increased use of genetic screening
of unborn babies for a new range of deficiencies, predicts Phillip Sloan,
director of Notre Dame University's Program in Science, Technology, and Values.
Unfortunately, doctors will be able to detect those defects long before they've
developed any cures. That could push prospective parents into a thicket of
ethical problems. Should they abort those children doctors believe will develop
a genetic disease later in life?

As the medical advances of the technology become clearer, society will likely
face bigger ethical dilemmas, Mr. Sloan points out.

For example, if medical geneticists one day are able to eliminate certain
defects for a generation and all its descendants, what would be the
consequences? Would it be ethical to add certain traits by genetic manipulation?
What constitutes improvement anyway: Freedom from disease? Being thin? Tall?

The world's unfortunate experiences with the eugenics movement in the 1920s and
'30s - including the mass sterilizations of people thought to be genetically
defective - make many scientists and medical ethicists uneasy about using
technology this way.

Of course, such visions may not come to pass, experts caution. At the very time
that popular culture is beginning to contemplate genetic science in very
simplistic ways, researchers are uncovering far more complexity.

There is no one gene for blue eyes or alcoholism or intelligence, for example.

Genes don't tell the whole story. They merely punch out a very complex code that
gets translated into an expression of proteins which, scientists say, may not
act the same way every time. Where they're located in the body, the presence of
other genes, personal behavior, and a person's environment may all play a role
in health and development, they say.

"It's more complex than we originally thought," says Ari Patrinos, director of
the office that oversees the US Energy Department's genome research. Some
diseases and physical traits may turn out to be too random to predict with any
certainty, he adds.

In fact, so little is known about gene therapy that researchers may have to slow
their clinical trials on people, some experts say.

In a clinical experiment last fall, teenager Jesse Gelsinger died several days
after University of Pennsylvania researchers injected him with genetic material.
The teenager had volunteered for the clinical trial but, according to his
father, was not fully informed of the risks involved. Nor was he told that the
lead researcher had founded a private company with exclusive rights to
discoveries at his university institute.

The case hints at ethicists' concern over commercialization: For all its
scientific promise, it may also put patients at risk.

The US Food and Drug Administration has accused the University of Pennsylvania
lab of safety violations. Last month, the lab stopped clinical trials.

Meanwhile, the US Department of Health and Human Services is stepping up its
monitoring of all clinical trials, and plans to force federally funded
researchers to disclose to prospective patients their financial stake in any
clinical trial.

Legally speaking, the science may be too new for anybody to properly give
consent, suggests Franklin Zweig, president of the Einstein Institute for
Science, Health, and the Courts.

The bigger issue

Perhaps the largest implications of the genome project lie with humanity's view
of God and itself. Are men and women puppets, genetically destined to live a
specific length of time with a certain level of intelligence and temperament? If
altruism is predetermined by a special set of genes, does God even exist?

Even many genetic researchers reject such notions. "I don't believe in the
excuse: 'My genes made me do it,'" says John Rodwell, acting head of AxCell
Biosciences in Newtown, Pa.

"I think that's bad science and bad theology all rolled into one," says Suzanne
Holland, professor of religious and social ethics at the University of Puget
Sound in Tacoma, Wash. "That is to say that there is no free will - that
everything's in the genes."

In fact, the complexity of genetic science may lead thought the opposite
direction, she says. "This sort of combination of genes with the interplay of
the environment is so magnificent and contains within it so much mystery that to
my mind it's more reason for belief in God... We might come to see God as far
more involved in the world than the Newtonian mechanistic view of a God that
sets up everything and steps out of the way."

   (c) Copyright 2000. The Christian Science Publishing Society


LOAD-DATE: June 06, 2000


                             457 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                  June 7, 2000, Wednesday RACING FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24 SPOTLIGHT ON HEALTH

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: NEW CELLS MAY REPLACE INSULIN SHOT

BODY:
BOSTON - A new cell transplant technique eliminates the need for insulin
injections in the treatment of diabetes, researchers said yesterday.

   Scientists injected pancreas cells near the liver in eight diabetes patients.
The cells took up residence in the liver and began producing the insulin that
controls blood sugar levels.

   If the results are confirmed in a larger study slated to begin this summer
and doctors can find a better source for the cells, which must now be harvested
from cadavers, it could mean the end of insulin-dependent diabetes, said Dr.
James Shapiro, who led the study.

   "This is going to be a tremendous advance," he said, "certainly for people
with type 1 diabetes," which is the most severe form and usually appears in
childhood.

   "That's what has been unique about what we've been able to accomplish in the
past 18 months," said Dr. Jonathan Lakey, a co-author of the study. "Eight
consecutive patients no longer need insulin shots."

   Type 1 diabetes, also known as juvenile onset diabetes, affects 500,000 to 1
million Americans, according to the American Diabetes Association.

   The long-term safety and effectiveness of the technique must still be
established.

   Recipients must take a combination of three drugs designed to prevent the
body from rejecting the transplanted cells. Those drugs increase the risk of
cancer and infection.Blood supply drying up

   The New York Blood Center, alarmed by a dangerously diminished supply at its
200 area hospitals, issued an emergency blood donor appeal for donations
yesterday.

   The low level of available blood was expected to last through the summer, and
the blood center was already reducing blood deliveries to some hospitals, said
its president, Dr. Robert Jones.

   The inventory is about 8,000 pints, a little more than half the desired
14,000-pint minimum, Jones said. For Type O and Type B blood, the supply is
sufficient to last about two days. Kids must move along Schools need more
mandatory physical education classes and parents need to unplug TVs and video
games, say researchers at the University of North Carolina, who concluded that
most young Americans are far too sedentary.

   Lead author Penny Gordon-Larsen blamed the problems on the decline in
comprehensive physical education in U.S. schools and habitual TV viewing and
video-game playing. Youngsters who don't get enough exercise could be at greater
risk for obesity, diabetes, cancer and heart disease. Calcium link to disease A
study of chest X-rays taken as far back as 35 years ago has helped confirm a
link between artery calcium deposits and heart disease later in life.

   The finding has the potential for helping to spot heart disease in patients
without symptoms, although it would be premature to recommend screening for
calcium deposits, a report by the California Kaiser Permanente health plans said
yesterday.

   The calcium deposits are believed to be a precursor for the buildups on
artery walls that cause heart disease.Hormone may aid illness  A synthetic
version of a fertility hormone reverses some of the crippling, disfiguring
effects of the sometimes-fatal tissue disease scleroderma, researchers found.

   A study in yesterday's Annals of Internal Medicine found in most patients a
low dose of the hormone relaxin softened and loosened skin scarred and hardened
by the poorly understood disease.

   Caused by unexplained overproduction of the protein collagen, the supporting
tissue, scleroderma afflicts about 400,000 Americans to some degree, mostly
women of child-bearing age. Feds hire research big The Clinton administration
hired a prominent expert on patient protections yesterday to oversee the
government's revamped effort to increase safety during medical research.

   Dr. Greg Koski, human research safety chief at a consortium of Harvard
University-affiliated hospitals, will head the government's new Office for Human
Research Protections.

   It's the latest step to stanch criticism that the government hasn't done
enough to protect thousands of patients in clinical trials, most recently in
fatal gene therapy experiments.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000


                             458 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                      June 7, 2000 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 05C

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Taking a swing at beating cancer;
Lombardi Classic continues to make a difference

BYLINE: GARY D'AMATO of the Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   Vince Lombardi died of colon cancer on Sept. 3, 1970.

   The next year, a charity golf tournament was launched at North Hills Country
Club in Menomonee Falls to honor the memory of the great coach and to raise
money for the war against cancer.

   Three decades and $4.6 million later, the Vince Lombardi Memorial Golf
Classic is still going strong.

   The 30th annual Lombardi Classic is scheduled for Saturday at North Hills. It
is preceded by the 13th annual Lombardi Run for Daylight, a 5K run/walk in
Menomonee Falls.

   Few events are left in sports/entertainment these days in which the motives
are pure, the commitment is genuine and nobody asks, "What's in it for me?"

   Charity golf tournaments are among them, and there is no finer example than
the Lombardi Classic.

   "It's special for a lot of reasons," said Larry Barbera, the Lombardi Classic
director. "Everybody has been touched by cancer in some way, shape or form.
Everybody knows somebody who has been touched by cancer.

   "Obviously, the name of the game is to make their lives a little better and,
in the bigger picture, provide hope."

   Hope comes with a price tag. But the improving cure rates for cancer patients
over the years are proof it can be bought. To that end, the Lombardi Classic
this year is expected to top $5 million in contributions.

   The classic works because its dedicated volunteers have faithfully stayed the
course and because it has stuck to a simple but successful formula.

   Fifty celebrities, and 170 co- sponsors who pay $2,000 each to play with
them, compete in a scramble format at North Hills. Spectators pay $2 to watch --
ticket prices have never been raised -- and autographs are free.

   The golf is not always great, but the entertainment value is unsurpassed.
Where else can you rub elbows with Olympic gold medal-winner Bonnie Blair, Hall
of Fame quarterback Bart Starr and actor Lee Majors all on the same day?

   Bob Hope has teed it up in the Lombardi Classic. So have President Gerald
Ford, George C. Scott, Leslie Nielsen and Johnny Unitas.

   Among those who are scheduled to play Saturday are Gale Sayers, George
Blanda, Andre Reed, Dan Jansen, Tom Crean, Willie Wood, Fuzzy Thurston and Sal
Bando.

   Most are more than willing to sign autographs after they've completed play.
Many also sign during their rounds, although aggressive autograph-seekers have
been a problem in recent years.

   When the weather cooperates, as many as 10,000 spectators line the fairways
at North Hills.

   The money from ticket sales, parking, raffles and concessions -- every cent,
after expenses -- goes to the Vince Lombardi Cancer Clinic and to the new Vince
Lombardi Gene Therapy Research Laboratory at St. Luke's Medical Center.

   Starr and his wife, Cherry, have been honorary co-chairmen of the Lombardi
Classic since its inception. Of all the things the great Packers quarterback has
accomplished in his life, none have given him greater satisfaction than his
association with the classic.

   "It's right at the top," Starr said. "Obviously, the Rawhide Boys Ranch, from
a family perspective, is our lead charity. But paralleling that, and not below
it, is our association with the Lombardi Classic.

   "I can't tell you how appreciative I am to have worked under coach Lombardi,
and to all my teammates in Green Bay. We succeeded as a team, and as you look
back over the last 30 years, you quickly sense this is what happened with the
Lombardi Classic. The people there, the committee and directors, have been
marvelous through the years."

   Someday, a cure for cancer will be found. Until that day arrives, however,
there is a war to be fought.

   Thankfully, there are good people in the trenches.

   OFF THE TEE

   BY THE NUMBERS

   3: Books that have been published on the late Payne Stewart in recent months.

   2,544: Dollars Tiger Woods made in his first professional start, the 1996
Greater Milwaukee Open.

   5,445: Dollars Woods has averaged for every hole he has played on the PGA
Tour this year.

   PLAYER OF THE WEEK

   Hale Irwin and Grace Park

   The golfers, at opposite ends of their careers, both won in impressive
fashion Sunday. Irwin fired a final-round 65 to win the BellSouth Senior Classic
at Opryland in Nashville, Tenn. It was his 27th victory on the Senior Tour, one
shy of Lee Trevino's record. Park, a 21-year-old rookie, won for the first time
on the LPGA Tour. Helped by two closing bogeys by leader Juli Inkster, Park won
the Kathy Ireland Greens.com Classic in Murrells Inlet, S.C.

   TALES FROM THE TOUR

   Pluck of the Irish: No European golfer has won the U.S. Open since 1970, when
Tony Jacklin of England stormed to a seven-stroke victory at Hazeltine National
in Chaska, Minn. Colin Montgomerie had his share of close calls in the 1990s,
and the Scot could be a factor at Pebble Beach next week. But Europe's best bet
may be Northern Ireland's Darren Clarke, who overcame a six- shot deficit with a
final-round 65 to win the English Open on Sunday. "I thought before today I
could win a U.S. Open," he said. "Now I know I can." Lest we forget, Clarke also
beat Tiger Woods in the World Golf Championships- Andersen Consulting Match Play
Championship in February.

   Singh eyes surgery: Masters champion Vijay Singh is thinking about joining
the growing list of PGA Tour players who have undergone Lasik eye surgery. Tom
Kite and Tiger Woods are among those who have touted the painless procedure.
Woods, who was near-sighted and wore contact lenses, said he was better able to
detect subtle contours in the greens after the surgery. "The way I've been
putting, I really think I should do it," Singh said. "I'm not reading the greens
as good as I think I should be."

   -- Compiled by Gary D'Amato

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000


                             459 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      June 6, 2000, Tuesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: REGION BRIEFS;
AMGEN TRIAL RESUMES

BYLINE: BY RONALD ROSENBERG, GLOBE STAFF

BODY:

   George Cummings, a University of Oklahoma researcher and biology professor
yesterday testified in US District Court in Boston on his research for Amgen
Inc. into the structures of the amino acids in different forms of
erythropoietin, an anemia-fighting drug. Cummings, an expert witness, led the
second week of the patent infringement trial between Amgen, which developed a
recombinant version of the erythropoietin called Epogen. The Amgen drug is the
world's largest-selling biotech medication. Cambridge-based Transkaryotic
Therapies Inc. claims to have developed a similar version of EPO not covered by
Amgen's five patents. Cummings said there were significant structural
differences between naturally occurring erythropoietin isolated from human urine
and Amgen's recombinant versions. In 1983 Amgen was the first to discover and
patent the gene that encodes the EPO protein. TKT claims its technology, called
gene activation, is significantly different from Amgen's approach. Cummings,
however, maintained the structure of both companies' recombinant versions are
very similar.  Cummings is the second of five Amgen witnesses to testify.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2000


                             460 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 6, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Despite Ferment, Gene Therapy Progresses

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: DENVER, June 2

BODY:

   Gene therapy burst into the news last fall, when a teenager from Tucson died
in an experiment at the University of Pennsylvania. But while politicians and
the press have spent the year focusing on accusations of lax government
oversight and shoddily run clinical trials, the science of gene therapy has been
making quiet, steady progress.

   Little by little, researchers say, they are finding new and better ways to
deliver genes to their target cells. Clinical trials of gene-based treatments
for hemophilia are showing promise, and certain cancer patients appear to
respond to gene therapy. And the field got a big ego boost this spring when
French scientists reported they had used gene therapy successfully to treat
babies born with defective immune systems.

    And so it was with mixed emotions -- worry and regret, enthusiasm and a
little bit of defiance -- that 2,500 gene therapy scientists from around the
nation, and the world, gathered here this week for the third annual conference
of the American Society of Gene Therapy. It has been, they agreed, a roller
coaster of a year.

   "It's finally coming together," said Dr. Savio L. C. Woo, a soft-spoken
molecular biologist who, as the society's president, found himself testifying in
Congress on more than one occasion in the past several months. "We are finally
seeing this glimpse of hope that this new technology is going to bear fruit in
the clinic. And yet we have had this serious setback."

   The setback, of course, was the death of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger, who
suffered from a metabolic disorder and had volunteered for an experiment to test
gene therapy for babies with a fatal form of the disease. His presence was
acutely felt at the conference. In his presidential address, Dr. Woo asked those
attending to stand in a moment of silence for "the young man who has given his
life in pursuit of an ideal treatment" and "to assure him in spirit that the
scientific community is galvanized to do our very best to help fulfill his dream
one day."

   Mr. Gelsinger's death has had ripple effects throughout the field. It touched
off a discussion of financial conflict of interest in gene therapy experiments,
prompting the society to issue guidelines barring members from running clinical
trials if they had a financial stake in the companies sponsoring their studies.

   It has also caused a slowdown in human experiments; an official from the Food
and Drug Administration, which recently issued more stringent regulations to
govern the conduct of gene therapy clinical trials, said here that requests to
test gene therapy in people had dropped off sharply in recent months.

   "The field is in transition," said Dr. Robert Malone, a researcher at the
University of Maryland. "I think it is transitioning to a more sober, realistic
recognition of what is achievable. I believe there is a new humility in the
field."

   Dr. Rajendra Kumar-Singh is typical. At 32, Dr. Kumar-Singh is an assistant
professor of ophthalmology at the University of Utah and is just starting his
career in gene therapy. He is studying treatments for retinitis pigmentosa, an
inherited condition that causes blindness. By administering an infusion of
gene-altered viruses to baby mice, he said, he has staved off blindness for 10
weeks in animals that would otherwise have lost their sight within 17 days of
birth.

   But Dr. Kumar-Singh said he would be cautious before testing the therapy in
people. "Perhaps we were moving too fast," he acknowledged, echoing the
sentiments of some critics, including Dr. Harold Varmus, the former director of
the National Institutes of Health, who felt gene therapy researchers moved too
quickly into clinical trials. Still, Dr. Kumar-Singh is optimistic about gene
therapy's future. "We are seeing a revolution in medicine right now," he said,
"and gene therapy is at the forefront of it."

   The idea behind gene therapy is disarmingly simple: to treat or cure disease
by giving healthy genes to patients with defective ones. But in the 10 years
since the first human experiment was conducted by researchers at the National
Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., the results have been largely
disappointing.

   One reason is that scientists have had trouble devising delivery vehicles,
called vectors, that can direct genes into the proper cells and get them to
function once they are there.  Vectors are typically made by inserting genes
into deactivated viruses that target certain cells, literally infecting them
with healthy DNA.

   Mr. Gelsinger's death, however, raised safety questions about one of the most
commonly used viruses, adenovirus, which causes the common cold. In most
patients, adenovirus produces mild, flulike symptoms. But in Mr. Gelsinger, it
provoked a fatal immune response.

   Even before Mr. Gelsinger's death, molecular biologists had been turning
their attention to a different virus, the adeno-associated virus, or AAV, which
is thought to be safer than adenovirus. Now, a team of researchers at Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Stanford University and Avigen Inc., a biotech
company, is reporting promising results in hemophilia patients who received a
genetically engineered form of AAV that contains the gene for production of
Factor IX, a protein that is needed to make blood clot.

   The team, led by Dr. Katherine High of the Philadelphia children's hospital,
began a small safety study after they found the treatment could essentially cure
dogs of hemophilia. So far, six patients have been enrolled. The first three
received the gene therapy at a dose so low it was not effective in the dogs. But
to the scientists' surprise, the patients began expressing minute amounts of
Factor IX -- enough that it improved their conditions and reduced their need for
the standard hemophilia treatment, injections of Factor IX.

   "We were delighted, but skeptical," said Dr. Catherine S. Manno, who is
running the clinical trial. "Only after repeated measurements over a period of
months did we become convinced that these levels were real."

   Although the hemophilia experiments are still in their early stages, leaders
in gene therapy say that, aside from the French work, Dr. High's research is the
most exciting in the field. Dr. Donald B. Kohn, an immunologist at Children's
Hospital of Los Angeles, said, "Hemophilia may be within a shot of being cured
by this approach."

   The word cure -- the "C-word," as Dr. R. Michael Blaese, who performed the
first human gene therapy experiment in 1990, calls it -- is one that gene
therapy researchers have learned to use with caution.

   "We will not talk about cure," said Dr. Alain Fischer of the Necker
children's hospital in Paris. "Cure means forever." Yet Dr. Fischer's work on
babies with a form of severe combined immune deficiency, or SCID (pronounced
like skid), is the closest thing gene therapy has seen to a cure. His study
provided gene therapy advocates with what they have long lacked: proof, in
principle, that the concept can work.

   Dr. Fischer's findings, published in April in the journal Science, were a
popular topic among the scientists in in Denver. "The field is now an
established principle in medicine," said Dr. Theodore Friedmann, a professor of
pediatrics at the University of California at San Diego who said he had been
pursuing gene therapy since 1968. "That's the story -- a brand new concept in
biomedicine, irretrievable, and it's beginning to work."

   In the Science article, Dr. Fischer recounted the successful treatment of two
babies, both of whom had normal immune systems 10 months after receiving gene
therapy. In Denver, he told reporters that he had since treated three more
children. Of the five, four have had "a complete or near complete recovery" of
their immune systems, he said. The outlook for the fifth, who had severe
complications from infection at the time of treatment, is less certain.

   Experts say one reason Dr. Fischer was successful where others had failed is
that SCID is particularly suited for gene therapy. The first human gene therapy
experiment, conducted by Dr. Blaese and Dr. W. French Anderson, was directed at
curing adenosine deaminase, or ADA, deficiency, another form of SCID. But it has
been difficult to gauge that study's outcome because a drug, PEG-ADA, is
available to children with the disease, and scientists consider it unethical to
withdraw the medicine.

   In Denver, however, an Italian researcher, Dr. Claudio Bordignon, announced
that he had solved that problem by being "lucky to find a patient who was
unlucky" -- a child who does not respond well to PEG-ADA. The patient, now 5,
was given her first infusion of corrective genes in 1996 and was slowly weaned
from the drug. She has not taken PEG-ADA for one year now, and her immune system
is functioning better now than before, Dr. Bordignon said.

   He theorized that the drug might have somehow suppressed the effects of the
gene therapy. "After discontinuation of PEG-ADA," he said, "all the genetically
engineered cells have come out."

   Whether, or when, gene therapy will ever become a part of mainstream medicine
remains a matter of debate. Most gene therapy experiments are still being
conducted in animals, and those being tested in people are producing mixed
results.

   At the Denver conference, for instance, scientists from Vical, a San Diego
company, reported preliminary results from 52 patients who have been enrolled in
a 70-patient study of gene therapy for advanced skin cancer. In the study, a
gene that alerts the immune system to recognize and kill foreign tissue is
administered directly into the patients' tumors.

   According to Dr. Deirdre Y. Gillespie, Vical's chief operating officer, 10
percent of patients responded extremely well to the therapy, with their tumors
shrinking in size by 50 percent or more. In another 15 percent of patients, the
therapy stopped the progression of disease, and the therapy reduced the size of
tumors in some of those patients as well.

   Those may not sound like spectacular results, but as Dr. Gillespie noted,
there is currently no effective treatment for advanced skin cancer, and the
patients in the study had failed all other therapies. In a sense then, the
cancer study encapsulates the state of gene therapy as a whole.

   Dr. Blaese put it this way: "For the average person, the progress may look to
be minor. But you need to put the developments of this field in context. We just
started 10 years ago."


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. R. Michael Blaese, a gene therapy pioneer who was in Denver
last Thursday, said researchers had learned to be cautious about talking of
cures for cancer. (Ernie Leyba for The New York Times)(pg. F1); Dr. Katherine
High of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia is leading research into the use
of genetic engineering to fight hemophilia.; Dr. Alain Fischer, who reported
that gene therapy can work. Behind him is Dr. Deirdre Y. Gillespie of Vical, a
company testing gene therapy. (Photographs by Ernie Leyba for the New York
Times)(pg. F4)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2000


                             461 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      June 6, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Brain abnormalities may compel senseless violence When people from
'good' homes go bad, defects are found

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

BODY:

   A hot night, an open window. The thief slipped into Adrian Raine's
hotel room sometime around 3 a.m.

   "I teach criminal behavior, and what you do is feign sleep when
this happens," says Raine, a psychologist at the University of
Southern California in Los Angeles. "About 90% of the time, all
they want are your possessions and to get away."

   Awakened by an intruder on a 1991 Turkish vacation, however, Raine
ignored his own advice. "I leapt out of bed," he says. "And
he beat me to a pulp."


   Instead of trying to escape, the intruder slashed at Raine's throat
with a knife that broke during the struggle. Police caught the
man after cordoning off the hotel.

   Most people would leave such an encounter with little sympathy
for criminals. But Raine has emerged in recent years as one of
the most prominent scientists promoting the idea that many violence-prone
people suffer from a biological disability.

   Brain impairments, Raine and other researchers believe, may partly
drive criminals' violent outbursts, alongside such traditional
reasons as poverty, neglect and troubled upbringings.

   "I see them as handicapped," he says. In February, Raine and
colleagues released a study finding brain deficits in 21 men who
suffer from anti-social personality disorder. People with the
disorder lack remorse, ignore others' suffering, and are impulsive
and prone to violence (38% of the study participants reported
they had fired a gun at someone else). All had committed crimes.

   Published in the Archives of General Psychiatry, magnetic
resonance imaging revealed that the surveyed men possessed a prefrontal
cortex -- a brain region associated with judgment and analytical
skills -- that was 11% smaller on average than their more pacific
peers.

   Further, Raine and colleagues released brain scans of 41 murderers
in 1997. The researchers found poor functioning in the prefrontal
cortex and the angular gyrus, associated with math and reading
skills, among the men. The two hemispheres of their brains communicated
poorly because of a deficit of connective tissue.

   While admiring such research, some caution that brain imaging
only opens the door on a complicated issue. "There's no brain
center for violence; it's many structures working together or
not working that predisposes toward it," says Antonio Damasio
of the University of Iowa College of Medicine in Iowa City. His
research on violent psychiatric patients found that they suffered
brain deficits in parts of the brain connected to reasoning and
emotions. "All this doesn't mean everyone with brain abnormalities
will be violent. People can behave abominably because they want
to, but people with abnormalities are more vulnerable."

   Stacking the deck against the impaired, such brain deficits are
associated with impulsiveness, which can lead to a risk-filled
life of head injuries, and with learning disorders, which can
limit opportunities.

   Raine and colleagues have looked at family backgrounds of murderers
to try to gauge the influence of brain damage on violence. A 1998
study examined 26 killers from "good" homes and 12 from "bad"
homes, those where neglect, abuse, criminal parents and poverty
were commonplace. Compared with non-violent people, the criminals
from bad homes had normal brain function. For the murderers from
good homes, the researchers found an average 14.2% reduction in
function in a portion of the brain associated with reasoning and
conscience.

   In November, a neurologist at the trial of Kip Kinkel, the Oregon
youth who murdered two classmates and his parents in 1998, testified
that the teenager suffers from "holes" in his prefrontal cortex.
Kinkel came from a stereotypically good home.

   "I suspect it's much more common than we usually imagine," Raine
says.

   Although no one has conducted brain-scan surveys of the roughly
half-million violent criminals in state and federal prisons nationwide,
Raine estimates that 50% to 60% of violent repeat offenders suffer
from some form of brain impairment. And 10% to 20% may have suffered
their brain damage from a severe blow to the head, like that seen
in a motorcycle accident.

   Raine's work is important because it combines information on violent
people's upbringing, performance on neurological tests and brain
imaging into one package, says Robert Bilder of the Nathan Kline
Institute for Psychiatric Research in Orangeburg, N.Y. "It points
out the limitations of only looking at one set of factors, psychological
or biological, and ignoring the others."

   For the future, Raine and others seem poised to look more thoroughly
at genetic links to violence.

   Such research attracts controversy. Some fear it will lead to
a gene-based form of institutionalized racism or a Clockwork
Orange-style future in which gene therapy develops into shock
treatment for suspected criminals. In 1995, at a conference in
Maryland on the topic, protesters seized a podium, and state troopers
moved in to provide security.

   For his part, Raine cautions that studies may never find a genetic
"test" for violence, merely showing a greater risk, as social
factors play a large role in criminal behavior.

   "Right now, we're only scratching the surface," Raine says.

   "We can't let people out of prison because of biology," he says,
but better prenatal health care and childhood nutrition could
go a long way toward reducing violence in society.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Don Ryan, AP; PHOTOS, B/W (2); Bad brain, bad behavior: Kip
Kinkel, who murdered two classmates and his parents, was diagnosed with 'holes'
in his prefrontal cortex. The mind of a killer: CT scans examine the brain of a
normal person, left, and that of a murderer. The murderer's brain shows
decreased activity in the prefrontal cortex. Researchers think a smaller
prefrontal cortex may play an important role in violent behavior.

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 2000


                             462 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                      June 6, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Can Science Be Supervised?

BODY:


   CLINICAL RESEARCHERS have shown dangerous disregard for the well-being of
their human subjects in too many recent cases. Health and Human Services
Secretary Donna Shalala has offered proposals to correct the problem. Evidence
of trouble has emerged at congressional hearings on the death of a gene therapy
patient and in a scathing report from the department's inspector general.
University-level institutional review boards, which are supposed to oversee
clinical trials, are widely agreed to be asleep at the switch; the department
proposes more training and education for boards and more documentation of trials
in progress, including specific evidence that patients undergoing experimental
procedures have given informed consent.

   Some troubling cases, especially in gene therapy, have highlighted the
potential conflicts of interest when university scientists (or universities)
hold stock in a company that will profit from an experiment's success; HHS wants
to impose a uniform standard rather than rely on institutions' own widely
varying approaches. That step is overdue--but only if the department, rather
than aiming for a common denominator, pushes through a standard far stiffer than
most current practices. At Harvard Medical School, no researcher can accept more
than $ 10,000 a year in fees or own more than $ 20,000 in stock from a company
that funds research in his or her lab; that's one of the more stringent rules.

   Ms. Shalala recommends that Congress allow institutions to be fined as much
as $ 1 million for human subject violations. There is solid logic to the
proposal. Fines, like the existing ultimate penalty in which the government may
close down an entire program, are a way of pushing universities to keep better
tabs on their own operations or risk financial pain and public humiliation. But
the government also needs to audit and monitor more actively.



LOAD-DATE: June 06, 2000


                             463 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2000 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                       June 5, 2000, Monday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: KELLY'S SON IS BEATING THE ODDS

BYLINE: MARK GAUGHAN; News Sports Reporter

BODY:


   The difficult fight against Krabbe disease could not have found a much more
fitting poster child than Hunter Kelly.

   The son of former Buffalo Bills quarterback has proven to be a fighter
extraordinaire.

   He was expected to live only 14 months. He now is 3 years and 3 months old.

   "What a tough little guy he is," Jim Kelly said Sunday night at a party for
his celebrity golf tournament. "Hunter already has had pneumonia over 15 times.
He hangs in there. Everybody talks about how tough I was on the football field,
but there's no comparison to how tough he is."

   The battle of the Kelly family against Krabbe disease reached another
milestone Sunday.

   Donations to the Hunter's Hope Foundation hit the $ 4 million mark, thanks to
a $ 400,000 contribution from KB Toys. The check from the nationwide toy
retailer came from the sale of 90,000 Hunter's Hope Bears, little stuffed
animals that have been on the market since September.

   "To think that we've raised $ 4 million in less than three years is
unbelieveable," said Kelly. "There is no cure and no treatment for this disease
right now. Every penny counts toward finding a cure."

   Krabbe disease, also known as globoid cell leukodystrophy, is a genetic
disorder that primarily affects the development of nerve and brain tissue.
Afflicted patients lack an enzyme that leads to the accumulation of toxic
substances in the brain. Krabbe disease occurs roughly once in every 40,000
births, according to the Hunter's Hope Foundation. It's so rare that the Kellys'
specialist has seen only three cases in infants here in the last 20 years.

   But until the Kellys came along, the profile for Krabbe disease and other
leukodystrophies was very low, because it was so rare and so hard to identify,
and because almost all of those afflicted by it do not survive to see their
second birthday.

   There are very few children with Krabbe disease who are known to have
survived longer than Hunter. One such child in East Aurora is 5 years old. The
Kellys know of another living in the United States who is 12.

   Hunter is on oxygen 24 hours a day. He has a tube that goes down to his
intestines. He has to be fed intravenously. He needs physical therapy to relieve
congestion from his chest every three to four hours, around the clock.

   "When it comes to sleeping, with Hunter you never know," Kelly said. "He goes
sometimes three days without even sleeping. Some days, he'll sleep four or five
hours at night.

   "The one thing that's very, very important with Hunter is chest therapy.
Because it's just like kids with Cystic Fibrosis. Just to loosen up the mucus in
his lungs, he needs that therapy at least every three to four hours, and
sometimes even more. He gets it every night. We have a nurse pretty much 24
hours a day."

   Hunter has held steady at 21 to 23 pounds the last two years.

   "He doesn't gain much weight, but lengthwise, he's very tall," Kelly said.
"His legs are very long. Just to see his beautiful face every morning is such a
blessing."

   Kelly and his wife, Jill, are proud that their fund-raising efforts have
filled a void for those with leukodystrophies.

   "When Hunter was first diagnosed, there was a United Leukodystrophy
Foundation," Kelly said. "I think they raised $ 1.2 million in 12 years."

   So far, the Hunter's Hope Foundation has handed out $ 1.5 million in research
grants, which are awarded by a 12-member Scientific Advisory Board.

   The research involves gene therapy, bone marrow transplants and early infant
screening.

   The Kellys will get an update on the progress of research at the third annual
Hunter's Hope Medical Symposium, which will be held in Java in July. About 20
doctors and scientists from around the world will gather with patients and
families to share information and experiences.

   "We're just scratching the surface right now," Kelly said. "It takes so much
more to do the work you really want to do. We need to keep pushing the
awareness. Like Jill and I said a long time ago, this is a lifelong commitment
for us. This is something we'll be working for until the day we die."

   Kelly also took the occasion to stand by his account of the airplane troubles
he encountered during a recent Alaskan hunting trip. The plane was forced down
by mechanical problems, and Kelly said he was forced to swim to shore.

   Kelly responded to questions following a report that pilot Jerry Jacques
downplayed the incident, saying he landed in "a tidal zone, in six inches of
water."

   "I know what happened," Kelly said. "I know that when you get out of a plane
and you go underwater, it's a little deeper than six inches. I know I'm not a
goldfish, I know I'm not that small.

   "I think, pretty much, that the pilot had to say that," Kelly said. "I talked
to him, and I think for his own case and the Federal Aviation Administration, he
has his own things that he had to say.

   "I think maybe he thought because there wasn't much damage, why report it?
When he had to report it, six inches of water sounds a lot better than 10 or 11
feet of water."

GRAPHIC: Derek Gee/Buffalo News; Jim Kelly kisses KB toys Senior Vice President
Tom Alfonsi as he presents a check for $ 400,000 to the Hunter's Hope charity.
Jim Kelly says it's a blessing to see his son's face every morning.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000


                             464 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                      June 5, 2000, Monday, Home Edition
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: Part A; Part 1; Page 1; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: FDA WARNINGS TO STATE RESEARCHERS RISE SHARPLY;
 MEDICINE: CALIFORNIA SCIENTISTS WERE CITED FOR VIOLATIONS 22 TIMES IN LAST 17
MONTHS. MANY SAY THE CHARGES ARE UNFAIR.
FOR THE RECORD

BYLINE: TERENCE MONMANEY and SYLVIA PAGAN WESTPHAL, TIMES STAFF WRITERS

BODY:


   California medical researchers lead the nation in Food and Drug
Administration warnings, receiving nine of the 22 reprimands since the start of
1999 for violating regulations that protect study volunteers from exploitation
and undue harm.

   Though the most populous state might be expected to get the most warnings,
the agency issued just two warnings to researchers here in 1997 and none in
1998, according to public records analyzed by The Times.

   The spate of California warnings reflects the FDA's stepped-up monitoring of
clinical study programs nationwide, the explosion of biomedical research and,
according to patient advocates, the growing number of for-profit clinical
research firms. Some of those firms have been criticized for cutting ethical
corners.

   The warnings, which the agency issues to fewer than 5% of the researchers it
audits, cited a range of violations, from poor record keeping to lax supervision
of junior researchers to apparent fraud. Among the allegations:

   * Dr. Ronald Cotliar, a dermatologist, oversaw one or more workers who
fabricated clinical measurements on scores of patients in an undisclosed drug
company-sponsored study at the Irvine Center for Clinical Research, a commercial
firm.

   * A prominent Los Angeles surgeon, Dr. Lawrence Dorr of Good Samaritan
Hospital, illegally imported parts for an experimental hip joint and inserted
the steel device into about 40 patients months before it received government
approval.

   * A San Luis Obispo eye doctor, Dr. Michael Limberg, put eight cataract
patients into a study that the FDA said was not appropriate for them, thus
exposing them to a potentially harmful laser treatment.

   The sanctioned researchers are top experts. They also include Dr. Ernest
Beutler, chairman of molecular and experimental medicine at the Scripps Research
Institute; Dr. Demetrios Demetriades, director of trauma and critical care at
the USC School of Medicine; Dr. Bruce Ettinger, a UC San Francisco-affiliated
kidney expert; Dr. Abdool Moossa, UC San Diego's chief of surgery; Dr. Robert
Rand, a UCLA-affiliated cancer surgeon; and Dr. Thomas Tooma, a noted eye
specialist in Newport Beach.

   The FDA closed the cases involving six of the researchers--Beutler, Cotliar,
Dorr, Ettinger, Moossa and Rand--after they vowed to improve practices and avoid
future violations. The three most recent cases--involving Demetriades, Limberg
and Tooma--remain open.

   Helping Humanity, Not Placating Bureaucrats

   The warning letters, which the FDA posts on its Web site, frustrate and anger
the researchers, who say their goal is to help humanity, not placate Washington
bureaucrats. UC San Diego's Moossa said his brush with the regulators has all
but killed his desire to do clinical trials. "Our lives were made miserable," he
said.

   Several of the researchers said the FDA was dinging them for studies
initiated years ago, when, they maintain, regulations were looser. "If you
review any study from 10 years ago, you're going to find it deficient by today's
standards," said UC San Francisco's Ettinger.

   No patient was physically harmed by the alleged wrongdoing, according to the
researchers. But the infractions nonetheless undermined patients' rights or
jeopardized studies' scientific validity and usefulness, scholars and advocates
say.

   California's jump to the top of the most-warned list coincides with deepening
public interest in the welfare of people who agree to serve as research
subjects. Partly in response to public pressure, the FDA has steadily boosted
inspections of research programs--for example, auditing 213 Institutional Review
Boards in fiscal year 1997, 253 in 1998 and 336 in 1999.

   At the same time, said Dr. David Lepay, director of investigations for the
agency's drug and research center, there has been an "upward blip" in the number
of warnings and other official FDA actions by his division, which conducted 400
inspections of review boards, individual researchers and other entities in the
last fiscal year.

   Besides the nine warnings slapped on California doctors since the beginning
of 1999, those in Texas got three, those in Wisconsin received two, and those in
eight other states got one apiece.

   Lepay urged caution in interpreting the numbers. They are too low to be
statistically significant and are not based on a scientific survey of national
research programs. And the overall percentage of audits resulting in a warning
has dropped, from 10% or 20% in the 1960s to 2% or 4% today, he said. "I frankly
think that American clinical research is in very good shape," Lepay said.

   Some Say FDA Should Be Tougher

   But patient advocates and some scholars argue that the FDA is still doing too
little. That such a small fraction of FDA audits results in warnings does not
jibe with academic and government studies showing that ethical shortcomings in
research are common. Several widely accepted analyses show that informed consent
violations, for instance, have occurred in one-third of all clinical studies.

   "The FDA's increased enforcement activities are encouraging," said Dr. Peter
Lurie, co-director of health research at Public Citizen, a Washington,
D.C.-based advocacy group. "But there are large residual amounts of research
activity out there that the agencies are not willing or able to take action
against."

   The FDA issues a warning after field officers inspect a clinic, interview
research staff and audit study records. Roughly 20% of the visits are triggered
by a complaint to the agency about a research program, and 80% reflect routine
monitoring, Lepay said.

   A warning is one of the most serious actions that the FDA can take against a
researcher, short of barring access to experimental treatments. Warned
researchers must account for the violations and explain how others will be
prevented. Those replies usually satisfy the agency, records show.

   Perhaps the most serious warning of the recent California lot was the one
sent to Cotliar and the Irvine contract-research firm. An FDA inspection in
March 1999 found that one or more study workers did not take the required body
temperature and respiration readings on 191 patients, but instead falsified
readings and entered them in the records. "The data generated from these
efficacy assessments may be inaccurate," the FDA said.

   Cotliar, who is in private practice in Tustin, said through an attorney that
the study coordinator who fabricated data was fired and that patient safety was
not compromised.

   He declined to name the treatment being tested or the company that sponsored
the research, citing confidentiality agreements. The Irvine firm declined to
comment. It is FDA policy to remove the names of drugs, study sponsors and other
proprietary details from released warning letters.

   The FDA's Lepay said the agency would not comment on specific cases.
Generally, though, he said a study that turns out to be useless because of
faulty data undercuts the rights of patients, who often undergo risky
experimental treatments precisely to advance medical knowledge.

   Moreover, Lurie, of Public Citizen, said faulty data may end up harming
people if the agency approves a product for marketing based on the information.

   The welfare of patients as well as the validity of studies can be threatened
when researchers ignore the criteria determining whether a person is eligible
for a study, regulators and scholars say. Studies with the "wrong" patients can
make a treatment seem either more or less effective than it really is.

   An FDA warning sent last month to Limberg, the San Luis Obispo
ophthalmologist, said eight of 24 cataract patients who underwent an
experimental laser procedure "did not meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria for
the study. . . . This included subjects who did not meet the age criteria; had a
cataract grade outside of the acceptable range; and had poorer visual acuity
than required." The FDA described that problem and others as "serious
violations."

   Limberg referred calls to a regulatory consultant for Paradigm Medical
Industries, which makes the laser device. Greg McArthur, the consultant, said
the problems were "clerical errors" and denied that some subjects did not belong
in the study. He said the FDA inspector "absolutely" did not understand the
research. The case remains open.

   Several of the warned physicians said regulators do not fully consider what
it means to care for sick or injured people who clamor for promising new
treatments, whether FDA-approved or not.

   In March 1999, the FDA reprimanded Dorr, the Good Samaritan surgeon, for
"significant violations" in a hip-replacement study after a complaint was lodged
with the agency. The study evaluated stainless steel hip parts from an overseas
supplier, and Dorr had FDA clearance to import enough parts to treat 46
patients.

   After doing so, he said, the replacement appeared to work so well that he
imported the parts from another overseas source without FDA permission and
treated another 40 patients on his own. And though he said he informed the extra
patients of the device's experimental nature, the FDA charged that he obtained
written consent from many of them only after the operation.

   Dorr admitted the infractions to the FDA. "Everyone who got the operation was
significantly helped by it," he said in an interview. "And that was what we were
trying to do."

   Irregularities in Use of Consent Forms

   A somewhat unusual case was that of Rand, of the John Wayne Cancer Institute
in Santa Monica. The noted 77-year-old surgeon said he had never done a drug
trial before and was not aware of all the regulations.

   He received an FDA warning last October for a study of an experimental brain
tumor drug, iL4. FDA inspectors, prompted by a complaint to the agency, found
inadequate record keeping, failures to promptly notify hospital review boards of
adverse reactions and deaths, and inclusion of a subject who did not fully meet
the study criteria.

   In an 11-page letter to the agency, Rand said he stopped doing a previously
specified brain scan because it was unnecessary and he wanted to save subjects
money. And he delayed reporting several deaths because the patients lived out of
state or overseas and word of their demise did not reach him for months, he
said.

   Most of the warnings cited problems with the subjects' consent, including
forms that were not in their first language, consent elicited from patients
after a procedure and consent forms that failed to mention an experimental
treatment's risks. Ethics scholars find such problems particularly troubling
because informed consent has been the preeminent moral ethic of human subject
research since World War II.

   Researchers who complain about the FDA's warnings and other actions often
miss the point, suggested Dr. Theodore Friedmann, director of the gene therapy
program at UC San Diego: "The FDA exists to ensure not the well-being of the
investigator, but of the patient."

   In addition to auditing individual researchers, FDA officials formally
inspect research sponsors and local research review committees. Since the start
of 1999, the agency has sent warnings to two California review boards and one
company for violations such as keeping insufficient meeting records and
neglecting to monitor study results.

   "When you're at the receiving end, it can be frustrating," said Michael
Gendreau, chief medical officer at Cypress Bioscience, a San Diego company that
received an FDA warning last June for failing to keep up-to-date study records.
"But better to be cautious than reckless."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2000, Saturday

CORRECTION:

   Retired doctor--A story in Monday's Times had an incomplete reference to Dr.
Robert Rand. As a professor emeritus, Rand is retired from UCLA's department of
neurosurgery. He does not currently work at UCLA or its hospitals. Dr. Lawrence
Dorr was warned by the Food and Drug Administration for research he conducted at
the USC School of Medicine just before joining the staff of Good Samaritan
Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000


                             465 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         JUNE 5, 2000 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: PATIENTS SCARCE FOR GENE THERAPY SCIENTISTS SAY THE DEATH OF A YOUTH
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA IS HINDERING RECRUITMENT OF VOLUNTEERS.

BYLINE: Joseph B. Verrengia, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DENVER

BODY:

   Scientists say they are having trouble recruiting volunteers for gene-therapy
trials following the death of a patient last year and a resulting federal
crackdown on experiments.

   Researchers attending the annual meeting of the American Society for Gene
Therapy in Denver last week asked for the public's patience as they try to
rescue what had been the hottest field in science from the flames of
controversy.

   Researchers at the meeting reported "spectacular" results in a few, isolated
trials to treat rare inherited diseases. And they reported more modest progress
in the genetic treatment of more common and complex diseases such as cancer.

   The meeting was scheduled a week after federal health officials proposed
fines of up to $1 million for scientists and their universities who violate
medical-research rules governing genetic trials.

   The penalties were prompted, in part, by the death in September of Jesse
Gelsinger, 18, at the University of Pennsylvania.

   The Tucson, Ariz., teenager suffered from a rare metabolic disorder. Penn
researchers had infused his liver with a virus that was supposed to spread new,
corrective DNA in his cells. But the virus triggered a fatal immune-system
reaction. The university's Institute for Human Gene Therapy and its director,
James Wilson, were barred from conducting trials with human patients after
violations of protocol were revealed.

   Federal regulators also are beginning an in-depth inspection of 70 additional
gene-therapy experiments around the country.

   "Gene therapy is still in its infancy," said Savio L.C. Woo, the society's
president and gene-therapy director at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New
York.

   "There can be no substitute for clinical testing of the new treatments in
patients," said Woo, who conducted a moment of silence for Gelsinger as he
opened the annual meeting. "The challenge will be to identify the means in a
scientifically and clinically sound way to ensure patient safety."

   Other researchers said the death at Penn had made recruiting new patients
more difficult.

   "Philadelphia has been the epicenter over the past year, and it has affected
us," said Katherine High of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. High's
gene-therapy trial is boosting levels of a blood-clotting protein in
hemophiliacs. But her preliminary success, first reported several months ago, is
based on a treatment that has been tested on few patients.

   Even before Gelsinger's death, hemophiliacs were apprehensive about medical
experiments after tainted blood supplies in the 1980s exposed them to the AIDS
virus and hepatitis.

   "If there is a population that has a right to be reluctant to trying new
therapies, this would be the one," High said. "There is a lot of concern among
people."

   Scientists reviewed several advances at the meeting.

   French geneticists said their gene therapy for a fatal immune disorder has
enabled four out of five children to live normal lives at home for as long as 14
months following the treatment.

   The children, ages 1 to 11 months, were born with a genetic defect that
destroyed their immune defense against common bacterial infections. The standard
treatment is to keep the children in protective ultra-clean "bubbles" in the
hospital and to attempt bone-marrow transplants.

   Alain Fischer of the Necker University Hospital in Paris loaded a normal copy
of the gene into a virus and injected it into the children's bone marrow. It was
repeated five days later.

   He said four children produced high levels of the body's primary defense
cells, including T-lymphocytes.

   "As soon as they have enough T-cells, within two or three months, they are
out of the bubble," said Fischer, who announced his findings several weeks ago.
"We do not talk about a cure. But T-cells can stay inside the body for 10 or 20
years."

   Woo praised the French trial as "nothing short of spectacular."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             466 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

                June 04, 2000, SUNDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: REAL LIFE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: PAWNS IN A GAME?

BYLINE: BY DAWN MACKEEN

BODY:


   No matter how Gretchen Stewart held her 3-month-old son, she couldn't console
him. Gage Stevens fussed, cried and vomited often. Nothing his pediatrician
recommended, including switching his formula, worked.  Finally, Gage's doctor
told his mother about a specialist at Pittsburgh Children's Hospital who was
testing the anti-heartburn drug Propulsid on children with Gage's condition.
Maybe that would help, she recalls him saying.

   Gage was enrolled in the study May 11, 1999. Six months later, his
grandmother gave him his nightly dose of medication and tucked him into bed. By
morning, he was dead.

   His family believes his participation in the drug study killed him. The local
coroner seems to agree. In April, Gage had the unfortunate honor of receiving a
second death certificate. Instead of sudden infant death syndrome, originally
listed as the cause of death last November, it now reads "cisapride (Propulsid)
and cimetidine (Tagamet) prescribed therapy" and "trial drug study." After
re-examining the case, Cyril Wecht, the Allegheny County, Pa., medical examiner,
concluded that Gage died from cardiac arrhythmia -- or heartbeat abnormalities
-- a side effect of Propulsid.

   The death of Gage Stevens, who suffered from a relatively common condition,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, has reopened the issue of whether it is right
to test powerful drugs on children. While the death of 18-year-old Jesse
Gelsinger brought criticism to the field of gene therapy -- and prompted U.S.
Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala to announce increased federal
monitoring of medical research -- Gage's death takes the debate to a deeper,
more troubling level.

   Should babies who can't even say "mama," let alone decide to participate in a
medical experiment, become pawns in the high-stakes game of drug research? Or is
the death of a child simply the price that must be paid to determine if a drug
is safe and effective for widespread use?

   "One way we feel comfortable about research is telling each other, these
people know the risks and they choose," says Arthur Caplan, director of the
Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center. "We can't
feel as good about allowing experiments on children."

   Most drugs are tested extensively on adults before the Food and Drug
Administration approves them. Once a drug is on the market, a doctor may
prescribe it for any patient, even a child. It is generally believed that only
about one-fourth of medicines prescribed for children have been approved
specifically for kids.

   Amid growing concerns over the inadequacy of pediatric drug testing, federal
legislation was passed three years ago to promote studies on kids. Since then,
the number of vaccines and pediatric medicines in development has skyrocketed --

 and so have the number of kids on the front lines of research. Gage Stevens may
be the first casualty of this new era.

   Since the FDA Modernization Act was passed, the number of vaccines and
medications in development for children has jumped to 217, up from 146,
according to a recent survey by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
America. Another 52 drug trials using children are to begin shortly.

   The need for pediatric research is clear -- until it's on the back of your
child.

   "Do you want to sacrifice your son or daughter for the next two or three
generations?" asks Adil Shamoo, vice president of Citizens for Responsible Care
and Research and professor of biochemistry at the University of Maryland School
of Medicine in Baltimore. "I wouldn't. I would do a lot of things in my life but
not this, not precious children to be used as guinea pigs."

   By far the most controversial pediatric study in recent years was not on
severely ill children, but healthy kids. It was conducted from 1994 to 1995 on
34 boys, ages 6 to 10. All were black or Hispanic.

   Evidence suggests that in adults, there is a link between lower levels of the
brain chemical serotonin and aggressive behavior. Researchers at the New York
Psychiatric Institute wanted to find out if this held true for kids. They
recruited boys whose brothers were juvenile delinquents. Each subject received a
single dose of fenfluramine, which helps researchers measure a hormone
indicative of serotonin levels.

   The study drew outrage and accusations of racism. Some parents say they
enrolled their sons in the research only because they thought it somehow might
help the legal case of their older son. Clearly, the study was not intended to
benefit the children, much less help the cases of their brothers.

   But institutional review boards, the committees that approve human studies at
any medical center, may give the green light to research without any therapeutic
value -- so long as it doesn't pose more than minimal risk for the child. The
psychiatric institute's review board decided this study fit that bill -- and
would produce important data on a pressing societal problem.

   "The development of antisocial behavior in youth is a problem that we have
few answers about the cause and no good solutions," says Dr. Timothy Walsh, who
was co-chairman of the review board. "If we're going to figure out ways to help
parents help their kids grow up in the way all parents want their kids to grow
up, we've got to do research."

   The federal government investigated and absolved the institute of wrongdoing.
But years later, the study is still heralded as an example of what happens when
research on children is allowed to go too far. The mother of one of the boys in
the study filed a lawsuit last December against the researchers and Columbia
University, which is affiliated with the psychiatric institute.

   "About two weeks after he was given the drug, he started having sharp,
painful headaches," Charisse Johnson told a congressional subcommittee holding a
hearing in December on the adequacy of protection for subjects in medical
research. "Then as the headaches became more unbearable, he started having
anxiety attacks and hyperventilating. He would start gasping for breath as if he
couldn't breathe, as with someone who was having an asthma attack."

   When other medical explanations were ruled out, and she learned about
fenfluramine's side effects, including heart valve damage, she began to suspect
the study was to blame. Isaac has since been diagnosed with post-traumatic
stress disorder.

   Walsh says there is no evidence that a single dose of fenfluramine poses
significant risk.

   When children become the essential ingredient of adult goals, says Boston
University's Leonard Glantz, the question arises: Are the researchers -- and the
parents, for that matter -- acting in the best interest of the child?

   "Pure research is a gift that subjects give to investigators, saying, 'You
can use my body as a laboratory so you can get information,' " Glantz says. "In
order for something to be given, you have to give your consent. Young kids can't
do that."

GRAPHIC: salon.com

LOAD-DATE: June 08, 2000


                             467 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                   June 4, 2000, Sunday SPORTS FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: PROMISE & PERIL IN GENE THERAPY Clinical tests stir up doubt

BYLINE: By SUSAN FERRARO DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

BODY:
Gene therapy - tinkering with disease where it first goes wrong, in the
molecules and proteins on millions of gene strands - sounds like a medical dream
come true, the ultimate high-tech cure for any and all deadly diseases.

   But the experimental tests required in gene therapy are an ethical and
medical minefield fraught with the potential abuse of vulnerable, frightened
human subjects, a disturbing intersection of medicine and multibillion-dollar
drug companies and the too-real risk - sometimes - of death.

   Using the 100,000 genes in the human genome to cure disease is
"intellectually appealing," said Dr. Ronald Crystal, a gene therapy scientist at
Weill Cornell Medical Center. "People are worried, but they see the possible
wonder of it in terms of treating human disease."

   In the past year, three experimental gene therapy tests - in Boston,
Pennsylvania and Memphis - have been shut down by the Food and Drug
Administration, which oversees all drug testing, following allegations that
participants had not been fully informed of risks or properly screened.

   Patients and their families are questioning the means, if not the results, of
the trials. "The way it was presented to us, it was safe," said Paul Gelsinger,
father of Jesse Gelsinger, who died in the Pennsylvania gene therapy trial. "The
oversight in this was totally inadequate."

   Allegations of improper conduct in testing are "certainly not helpful to this
new class of medicines," said Dr. Savio Woo, a gene therapy scientist at Mount
Sinai Medical Center and president of the American Society for Gene Therapy. "It
damages the reputation of gene therapy in the minds of the public."

   "What we don't know is, if obvious wrongdoings are the tip of the iceberg, or
whether they are isolated and rare incidents," said Dr. Ruth Macklin, a
bioethicist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx.

   Many experimental drug study participants are very ill and turn to gene
therapy as a last resort. Many die, usually from underlying disease. It can be
difficult to separate the consequences of the treatment from the disease itself.

   Treating patients in ways that may only help scientists and the drug
companies that often bankroll their experiments raises anew ethical questions
about what - and when - patients and the public should be told about
experimental test results.

   At the center of the growing furor over human gene therapy is Boston
researcher Dr. Jeffrey Isner.

   Earlier this year, the FDA shut down Isner's experiments at St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center in Boston with a growth gene called VEGF that, injected into the
hearts of patients with inadequate arteries, is supposed to grow new blood
vessels.

   The FDA charged that Isner - who owns 5% of Vascular Genetics Inc., which
funds his research - wrongly allowed a patient into the study who had cancer
that may have been worsened by the experimental therapy, and improperly
autopsied another's participant's heart after she died.

   The benefits, if Isner's approach proved viable, would be sweeping and clear:
Heart disease, much of which includes blocked arteries, is the No. 1 killer of
men and women in the United States.

   Said Sonya Hagopian, spokeswoman for St. Elizabeth's, "I have met a ton of
patients who absolutely swear they are alive today because they were
participants in the studies."


GRAPHIC: Caption not available electronically

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000


                             468 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                   June 4, 2000, Sunday SPORTS FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: PROMISE & PERIL IN GENE THERAPY One patient's bid for a better life

BYLINE: By MARY JANE FINE DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

BODY:
IT WAS A YEAR ago that Dr. Eugene Albu offered himself up as a medical
experiment - and, he felt, with good reason.

   A surgeon at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, Albu had prostate cancer, newly
diagnosed and extremely aggressive.

   His urologist gave him the standard options - radiation, surgery, radioactive
seed implantation. And then he added one more. Mount Sinai Medical Center had a
presurgery gene therapy clinical trial underway, and Albu fit the profile: men
with advanced prostate cancer that had not yet spread.

   Did Albu want to consider that?

   He did.

   Even though the procedure - like gene therapy itself, so far - carries some
risk and no certain benefits?

   Yes, even so.

   After the therapy, Albu sat outside a Bronx-Lebanon operating room where he
had just removed a patient's inflamed gallbladder and recalled his own
experience as a patient and his reasons for choosing the less-traveled road.

   "I believed in the treatment," said Albu, a soft-spoken man of 74 whose
gentle, unhurried manner belies the assurance associated with surgeons. "So I
had, maybe, something to gain and nothing to lose."

   As Albu well knew, human gene therapy was the brave new world of medicine.
Ever since the first gene therapy experiment was performed on humans in 1990,
the field has generated considerable hope, hype and, of late, criticism.

   IN SEPTEMBER, only four months after Albu received his treatment, the death
of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger at the University of Pennsylvania put the
experimental trials under the microscope.

   The idea, and the hope, behind gene therapy involves treating, and some day
curing, diseases by infusing patients with healthy DNA or by removing
disease-causing genes and replacing them with healthy ones.

   In cancer patients, for example, genetic therapies are being developed to
directly kill cancer cells or stimulate the body's immune system.

   Clinical trials performed on human patients are monitored by both the
National Institutes of Health and the Federal Drug Administration, as well as by
individual hospitals that are active in gene therapy research.

   To date, no cures have been attributed to gene therapy, although anecdotal
success stories continue to offer encouragement to patients who, too often, are
running out of options.

   When researcher-physician Dr. Simon Hall first met patient-to-be Albu, he was
struck by the elderly surgeon's fierce determination.

   "Most of the patients I speak to take quite a bit of time making up their
minds [whether to undergo experimental treatment]," Hall said. "But he had
already made up his mind. He's a surgeon, and surgeons are trained to make quick
decisions."

   Most patients bombard Hall with questions. Is the procedure dangerous? Will
it delay my surgery? What side effects are likely?

   Albu asked very little. He had read the medical literature on the subject
and, coincidentally, had attended a seminar on gene therapy six months earlier,
little knowing the subject would soon turn personal.

   But he listened carefully as Hall described the procedure: It would be a
Phase I clinical trial, intended only to determine how large a dose can be
safely given. There was no guarantee it would be effective, no promise of cure.

   An adenovirus, which causes the common cold, would be injected directly into
the prostate. The thymidine kinase - or tk - gene rides on the adenovirus, a
microscopic hitchhiker with a mission.

   A day later, he would receive the anti-viral drug ganciclovir intravenously
for a week. By itself, ganciclovir is used to treat viral infections in AIDS or
organ-transplant patients.

   In combination, the theory goes, the tk cells and the ganciclovir will kill
tumor cells and boost the immune system to destroy any stray cancer cells
outside the prostate - a presurgery cleanup, in effect.

   Flu-like symptoms are to be expected. Less common, but possible, are skin
rashes or a bout of hepatitis.

   And one more thing, Hall told Albu: "You could have a significant reaction
and die."

   Though the risk of death is minuscule, medical ethics dictate that patients
must be told. Jesse Gelsinger had known the risks when he volunteered for a gene
trial to cure his rare, often-fatal liver ailment. But after his death,
Gelsinger's father questioned whether the then-healthy young man should have
been included in the study.

   Informed consent and the reporting of adverse reactions during clinical
trials are major concerns to federal officials at the NIH and FDA charged with
keeping patients safe. Since Gelsinger's death, the University of Pennsylvania
has ceased all clinical trials on human subjects.

   In Albu's case, even surgery alone was a matter for debate. Prostate cancer
progresses slowly, and surgery usually is not recommended in patients his age,
when complications - incontinence and impotence - tend to be worse.

   But nothing dissuaded Albu. He wanted to undergo the procedure.

   "I tried to emphasize that the potential benefit is really unknown," said
Hall, who was surprised by Albu's determination. "He pretty much decided it was
worth the gamble."

   Asked about his reasons, Albu smiled and ran a hand through his hair.

   "If I know the prostate is in the laboratory and not in me, it is better," he
joked, the accent of his native Romania inflecting his words.

   AND ALBU felt he had much to live for. His wife of 52 years, "an
old-fashioned marriage." His son and daughter-in-law and his adored
granddaughters, ages 17 and 12. His work, as a surgeon and a teacher. His love
of reading and watching TV and traveling, "everywhere - to New Zealand,
Tasmania, Antarctica."

   On June 1, 1999, Albu entered the hospital for the gene-adenovirus injection.
As expected, he suffered flu-like fever and chills. Also as expected, a blood
test showed his PSA - prostate specific antigen - shot up from an
already-elevated 14.9 to 26.9. Hall attributed it to an inflammation from the
injected virus.

   The intravenous ganciclovir infusion caused no reaction, and he went home
after a week to await his prostate removal surgery.

   He had been the fifth of six patients to receive the experimental treatment,
and the oldest.

   In late June, Albu's prostate was removed. By July 21, his PSA level had
fallen to .1, as expected after surgery. On Aug. 4, the reading dropped even
further, to 0.07.

   "I don't make anything of it," Hall said of the lower reading, "but [Albu]
thought it was because of the gene therapy."

   The apparent good news was short-lived.

   By December, Albu's PSA level had begun climbing again. It was only .13, but
even that indicated the presence of malignant cells.

   HIS UROLOGIST put him on hormone therapy, a maintenance treatment that causes
uncomfortable hot flashes. He complains about them, then shrugs. He still works
a full hospital schedule, from 7:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.

   "He's 74; he could easily retire," Hall said admiringly. "But he's up there
operating, teaching."

   In the fall, after Gelsinger's death in Philadelphia, Mount Sinai voluntarily
suspended clinical trials to allow for an internal review of all procedures,
even though no known problems existed.

   For Albu, the trial was already over, and with no provable advantage. But
because prostate cancer is a slowly progressing disease, Hall expects his former
patient may live for another 10 or 15 years.

   Outside Bronx-Lebanon's operating room, dressed in his blue surgical scrubs,
Albu called himself "stubborn" and said that, except for moderate incontinence,
he was feeling okay.

   "I am alive," he said, his voice strong and determined. "I am operating. It's
not easy, but I'm a tough old guy."Graphic: AN EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT FOR
PROSTATE CANCERHOW IT WORKS

   Gene therapy is still in its early stages, but researchers believe it has
tremendous potential to treat deadly and disabling illness - such as cancer,
cystic fibrosis and the overproduction of cholesterol - and even to prevent
disease.

   Viruses, which target human cells, are a promising delivery system for
therapeutic genes. They "carry" the genes to targeted cells. The combination of
new genes and other drug treatments can kill off malignant cells without
damaging healthy cells.

   Basically, there are two types of gene therapy: somatic (body) gene therapy
and germline (egg and sperm) gene therapy.

   In somatic gene therapy, the patient's genome is altered in a corrective way,
but the change isn't passed on to the next generation. This is the type of
therapy being tested at laboratories around the world.

   Germline gene therapy, not currently being pursued, would modify genes to
pass changes along to one's offspring.DR. ALBU'S PROCEDURE1. The adenovirus,
carrying the thymidine kinase (tk) gene - taken from the herpes simplex virus,
which does not occur naturally in humans, but is a cancer-cell killer - is
injected directly into the patient's prostate. This, essentially, is a delivery
system, placing the genes in position within the prostate to await the next
step. 2. The next day, the patient begins a one-week intravenous course of the
anti-viral drug ganciclovir. Ganciclovir is most commonly used to treat viral
infections in organ-transplant recipients or patients with AIDS. In combination
with the tk genes, it is supposed to kill tumor cells and boost the body's
immune system to destroy any stray cancer cells outside the prostate.3. The
patient goes home for two to three weeks. During this period, researchers
believe, cancer cells are dying, thus shrinking the tumor. Unlike chemotherapy,
the treatment targets cancer cells without killing healthy cells. 4. The patient
returns to the hospital for surgical removal of the prostate.5. Routine followup
treatment, including PSA (prostate specific antigen) blood tests, which can
indicate the presence of cancer cells.

GRAPHIC: MIKE ALBANS DAILY NEWS COREY SIPKIN DAILY NEWS FIGHTING BACK   Prostate
cancer sufferer Dr. Eugene Albu, 74, in operating room at Bronx-Lebanon
Hospital, where he is a surgeon, and at home with his family: (l. to r.) wife,
Paula; granddaughters, Myra and Monica, and son, Peter.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000


                             469 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 4, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1935 words

HEADLINE: WORKING DRAFT OF DNA CODE PROMISES A TOTAL LOOK AT HOW HUMANS DEVELOP;

WU RESEARCHERS ALREADY ARE REVISING THEIR SKETCH TO GET A COMPLETE BLUEPRINT

BYLINE: William Allen; Post-Dispatch Science Writer

BODY:


   The hum of the robots, lasers and DNA sequencers on the third and fourth
floors of 4444 Forest Park Avenue doesn't sound any different these days than a
month ago.

   But there's a new feeling of excitement among the more than 400 employees
there, at the Genome Sequencing Center of Washington University School of
Medicine, in the Central West End.

   "I know it's a cliche, but the fact is, there's change in the air," said Tony
Favello, operations coordinator for the center, which is one of the linchpins in
the international Human Genome Project.

   The excitement derives from the near completion by the public-funded project
of a working draft of the 3 billion-letter DNA code in our chromosomes.

   Last month -- even as the working draft finished pouring out the back end of
their code-crunching pipeline -- the researchers began feeding the front end
with new batches of DNA. The goal now: to decipher a highly polished, "finished"
version of the genome.

   The finished sequence will fill in gaps in the DNA data that the genome
project skipped over in a more than year-long rush to finish a working draft.

   Another reason for excitement is that the working draft has become a gold
mine for medical research, scientists say. It has opened new avenues in the
investigation of disease-causing genes.

   Discovering how these genes work holds promise for conquering many diseases,
including cancer, heart disease and diabetes. In a matter of years, genetic
tests, gene therapy and personalized, gene-based drugs may be available for
thousands of inherited diseases.

   Other possibilities are no less real, although they sometimes read like
science fiction. Couples could select the physical and mental traits of their
children. The average human life span could reach 90. Experts could direct human
evolution by deleting and adding genes.

   The draft also takes science -- and society -- one step closer to what could
be a brave new world in which institutions hold unthinkable power over
individual human beings.

   From a single drop of blood taken at birth, governments, health insurers and
employers could know previously unimaginable details about anyone, including
intellectual weaknesses, sexual preference and susceptibility to diseases. That
change could open a new era of discrimination.

   Some experts say such tests could reveal potential future cravings for
everything from sweets to drugs and violent crime.

   Despite gaps and related errors, the working draft "will provide scientists
for the first time a view of the total information that directs the human embryo
to become a child, that child to become an adult and that adult to age and die,"
said Dr. Robert Waterston, director of the St. Louis center.

   The Washington University center is part of a public consortium of
gene-sequencing institutions, including Baylor College of Medicine in Houston,
the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass., the Sanger Centre in England and
the Joint Genome Institute of the U.S. Department of Energy. These five centers
produced the lion's share of the working draft, while dozens of others around
the world contributed.

An unedited book

Just what is a working draft and how is it useful?

   To understand the answer, it helps to know some basics of genome sequencing.

   The Washington University researchers -- along with scientists at other
institutions -- have replicated, sliced and diced human chromosomes into pieces
of DNA and decoded it. They repeated this process several times to check the
code. Then they placed the information on the Internet for public use.

   The biochemical code embedded in DNA is formed by a pattern of chemical units
called base pairs. These pairs are commonly designated by the letters A, C, G
and T.

   Across parallel strands of DNA, A and C pair as one unit and G and T pair as
another. These base pairs tap out a code read by each cell's bioc hemical
machinery to construct life's basic building blocks, known as proteins.

   If printed out, the information encoded in the 3 billion base pairs of the
human genome would fill a thousand telephone books of a thousand pages each.
Within that mass of instructions, a single misplaced base pair is enough to
cause disease.

   Genome scientists use complex statistical terms to explain the accuracy of
the working and finished drafts. But the difference boils down to something like
the difference between an A-minus and an A-plus on a term paper.

   Another way of understanding the accuracy of the decoding job is to think of
the genome as a set of books.

   A whole set of books, well-printed and well-preserved, would represent a
finished draft.

   On the other hand, an earlier unedited copy of the book would represent the
working draft.

   "You might be missing a few letters or a word here and there," said John
McPherson, co-director of the St. Louis center. "Occasionally even half a
sentence might be gone. But with a little bit of effort, you'd still be able to
read that page and understand what it's trying to tell you."

Shotgun vs. the map

   What are the differences between the working draft produced by the public
consortium and one recently announced by Celera Genomics, a private company in
Rockville, Md.?

   Celera announced April 6 that it had completed sequencing fragments of a
human genome and would begin assembling the fragments into proper order.

   One difference is that the consortium's draft is publicly available for free
over the Internet.

   The company showed no data supporting its claim and is charging cu stomers
who want the data. Researchers at Washington University point out that much of
Celera's sequencing data came from the public project.

   Another difference has to do with the organization of all the DNA pieces in
the public and private efforts, McPherson said.

   Celera used a "whole-genome shotgun" approach. That means company researchers
basically blasted apart the entire genome, decoded its pieces and now are trying
to reassemble them in proper order. That's a tough job, and some gene
researchers think it's next to impossible.

   As part of the public project, Washington University researchers led
construction of a map showing the location of most of their DNA pieces, known in
this case as clones. So they know how most of these pieces fit together.

   "In other words, we know the order of the pages because we've mapped all the
clones in the genome," McPherson said. "A whole-genome shotgun assembly means
you have a whole book's worth of paragraphs that you have to organize."

Moving ahead

   Recent studies show that scientists can easily identify 95 percent of the
genes in the publicly posted working draft.

   "It's not the final product, but the bulk of it will be extremely useful for
the average investigator," McPherson said.

How will the "average investigator" make use of the working draft?

   Put simply, they will go to the public database and find the genome piece on
which they believe a particular disease gene of interest is located. The genome
map will direct them to the piece by guiding them first to the correct
chromosome and then to the correct section of the chromosome.

   Returning to the book analogy, that's something like being guided to the
correct volume on the shelf and then to the chapter in which the info rmation
you want is presented. Sometimes the map guides the investigator to the correct
page.

   The researcher then reads those pages or lines until he or she comes across
the disease gene. Of course, the process is more complicated than that, and an
exhaustive battery of tests is required for the gene to be confirmed.

   Even though the final volumes of the working draft aren't yet on the shelf,
scientists have found great value in the parts that are completed. Early volumes
have allowed them to discover the DNA sequences associated with 11 disease
genes.

And the pace of discovery has begun to accelerate.

   In one example, a team of researchers in Israel, Maryland and Iowa discovered
a gene for Pendred syndrome, a genetic disease responsible for about one in 10
cases of hereditary deafness. They opened a new front in the effort to
understand what causes deafness, and why the thyroid is sometimes involved.

   Working with Pendred syndrome patients in Israel and DNA data produced by the
Washington University center, the scientists found a typographical error in a
region of chromosome 7.

   "It's just detective work," said Dr. Eric Green, a gene hunter at the
National Human Genome Research Institute, in Bethesda, Md. "First you find the
page of a book that has what you're interested in. Then you find the words. Then
look to see where the typo is."

   In tests with mice, the scientists found that in Pendred syndrome a substance
known as pendrin is absent during a key time in fetal development, and the inner
ear fails to develop. This knowledge could lead to figuring out how pendrin's
absence disrupts the ear.

   Compared with cancer and heart disease, Pendred syndrome is relatively simple
and affects fewer people. But similar understanding of the big-impact diseases
is just around the corner, scientists say. So, too, are new methods for
treatment and diagnosis.

   "The bottleneck is no longer finding the disease gene, but in understanding
its role in human biology and in developing effective therapies," said the
genome center's Waterston.

What's next?

   The working draft has been available to researchers on the Internet within 24
hours of being decoded. It also will be published this summer simultaneously in
the two leading science journals, Science and Nature.

   The finished sequence will be the next big step. As part of the work leading
to completing the working draft, the public genome centers also finished 20
percent of the human genome, including all of chromosomes 21 and 22.

   Finishing the other parts of the genome will take until 2003, leaders of the
project say. That just happens to be the 50th anniversary of the discovery of
the double helix structure of DNA by James Watson and Francis Crick.

   "We've all basically dedicated our lives to doing this," said McPherson.
"It's been a long haul. But it's important, and we feel it will be of great
benefit for everyone."

   Meanwhile, researchers will continue to sequence the genomes of other
organisms. Of particular interest at Washington University are the mouse, rat
and zebra fish -- three of the main workhorse organisms in molecular biology.
Also due for the sequencing pipeline are bacteria, fungi and various species of
plants.

Said Waterston: "There's lots of DNA out there."

===

Glossary

Some useful terms in understanding the basics of human genetics:

   * Cell: a collection of substances bounded by a membrane and containing
(except blood cells) the entire human genome. The body has 100 trillion cells.

   * Chromosome: a structure within the nucleus of the cell that contains a long
piece of DNA. A human cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes, one chromosome in each
pair coming from each parent.

   * Genome: The complete set of genes for an organism. A copy exists in nearly
every one of the 100 trillion cells in the human body. Each copy has information
encoded in 3 billion base pairs.

   * Human Genome Project: an international research program that seeks to
decipher and understand the workings of the coded "books" of hereditary ins
tructions in each of us.

   * Mapping: Determining the relative positions of genes on a DNA strand and
the distances between them.

   * Protein: the chemical workhorses and basic building blocks of body organs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC (1) Color PHOTO by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Joseph
Garrett puts a monitoring comb into a gel plate in preparation to load the
genome sequencing machine at the Washington University Genome Sequencing Center.
Research teams are almost finished with a working draft of the human genome.
 (2) Graphic / Illustration - Unraveling the spiral staircase
 Researchers say they've got a working draft fo the human genetic blueprint. Now
what?
 Strand of DNA
 Deoxyribonucleic acid. A long, twisting, double helix molecule that contains
the genetic code, spelled out in varying sequences of the four chemical bases.
 Gene
 The basic unit of heredity. Each gene is a segment of DNA and holds the recipe
for making a specific molecule important for life, usually a protein.
 Base pair
 A pair of two of the four chemical bases in the double-stranded DNA chain. The
varying sequences of four chemical bases spell out the genetic code.
 (3) Photo headshot - (Dr. Robert) Waterston
 Director of the Genome Sequencing Center of Washington University School of
Medicine
 (4) Graphic / Chart by POST-DISPATCH
 The history of DNA
 * 1866: Gregor Johann Mendel, an Austrian botanist and monk, outlines the
basics of heredity by breeding pea plants. His discoveries go widely unnoticed
until 1900.
 * 1910: Working with fruit flies, Thomas Hunt Morgan finds genes are organized
along chromosomes. Thirty years later, scientists propose genes are made of DNA.

 * 1953: Biologists James Watson and Francis Crick discover the helical
structure of DNA and earn the Nobel Prize.
 * 1973: Stanley Cohen and Herbert Brown invent genetic engineering by
transplanting a gene from one bacterium into another. Others soon move genes
between species. Seven years later, the U.S. Supreme Court rules such life forms
can be patented.
 * 1987: First human disease gene, muscular dystrophy, is found. Genes for
cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease and breast cancer also are located.
 * 1990: A 4-year-old girl with severe immune deficiency is the first to be
treated with gene therapy.
 * 1995: J. Craig Venter completes the first full sequence of a living organism,
a bacterium that causes meningitis.
 * June 2000: Human genome working draft is expected to be completed.
 Source: Knight Ridder

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2000


                             470 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                      June 3, 2000, Saturday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Part 1; Page 14; National Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: NIH PLANS MORE OVERSIGHT OF GENE THERAPY TRIALS

BYLINE: From Newsday

DATELINE: DENVER

BODY:


   A thorough new look at what role the National Institutes of Health should be
playing in gene therapy clinical trials will be submitted next week to the NIH
director, an agency official said here Friday.

   Dr. Amy Patterson, director of the NIH's Office of Biotechnology Activities,
said a special committee set up in the wake of a gene therapy patient's death is
expected to submit its report Thursday. Its task was to reassess what kind of
oversight the federal health research agency should exert.

   "As a result of recent events," Patterson said during a news conference, "the
public has been seeing all of clinical research through the lens of gene therapy
." As a result, the NIH is reexamining its rules and practices governing all
clinical trials. It already has decided to take three steps quickly.

   First, all researchers engaged in gene therapy trials will be asked to attend
a symposium meant to alert scientists to the hazards inherent in experimental
treatments.

   Second, telephone calls are being made by NIH staff members to the lead
scientists and doctors running the 500 or so gene therapy clinical trials
already underway. The discussions will cover safety issues and help resolve any
questions about NIH rules.

   Third, NIH officials are beginning a site-visit program in which agency
experts will visit ongoing gene therapy trials. The goal is to help the
scientists understand and comply with NIH requirements.

   The recent events that Patterson discussed at the third annual meeting of the
American Society for Gene Therapy included the death last fall of 18-year-old
Jesse Gelsinger of Arizona in a gene therapy trial at the University of
Pennsylvania and the discovery that hundreds of "adverse events" in other
clinical trials had not been reported to the NIH. Most of these adverse events
did not involve the gene treatments that were being given, however, but instead
were linked to the patients' original diseases, a Food and Drug Administration
investigation found.

   Dr. Inder Verma, incoming president of the Gene Therapy Society, said the
young organization "is delighted with the close collaboration" that is emerging
between the NIH, the FDA and the society. He noted that "clinical trials all
have a certain degree of risk" but emphasized that "safety is paramount."

   "We hope that the guidelines will be practical and doable," said Verma, a
molecular geneticist from the Salk Institute in La Jolla.

   Dr. Philip Noguchi, director of Cell and Gene Therapy at the FDA, said the
agency has a tendency toward secrecy--it can't divulge confidential commercial
information about drugs under development--but said new efforts are being made
to be "more transparent" in its oversight of gene therapy.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2000


                             471 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                       June 2, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Sports injuries expected to increase as baby boomers age

BYLINE: JOHN FAUBER of the Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   Indianapolis -- A glimpse of the future of sports medicine was unveiled
Thursday, and for active people racing toward their 60s, it's not a pretty
picture.

   Here's what they have to look forward to: more osteoarthritis and joint pain,
less muscle strength and flexibility, more back problems and the distinct
possibility of tearing the rotator cuffs in their shoulders, according to
physicians and researchers who spoke at the annual meeting of the American
College of Sports Medicine.

   "Biology is not in their favor," said Kevin Speer, an orthopedic specialist
at Duke University Medical Center. "I think we are going to see an explosion of
patients who are active and want to remain active."

   Just by their sheer numbers, baby boomers probably will keep physicians and
therapists who specialize in sports medicine busy in the coming years. Americans
older than 65 now number 35.3 million, about 12.8% of the population. By 2020,
they are expected to number 53.3 million, or 16.3% of the population.

   Speer said much of the future of sports medicine will be prevention. For a
golfer or a runner, that may mean warming up and stretching for 20 minutes
before starting as well as doing a cool-down activity afterward.

   "If you manage it well, you can be as active as you want to be," he said.

   For many, back pain will be one of the one of the most nagging aspects of
getting older.

   "There is wear and tear on all backs as we get older," said Joel Press, a
physician at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago.

   Discs, tough cushioning pads between vertebrae in the spine, start to dry out
at age 20, and by age 40, 80% of men and 65% of women have at least moderate
disc degeneration, although in many of those cases there are no symptoms.

   Exercise generally is good for the back, Press said.

   "That's why people who sit all day long have more back pain," he said.

   Two of the best remedies for an ailing lower back are to regularly stretch
the hamstring muscles and, if you work at a desk, to get up at least every 30
minutes and move around.

   A primary reason for increased musculoskeletal problems with aging is
probably related to the process of cell replication. Over the years, cells lose
the ability to divide and become more susceptible to stress, said Allison Toth,
chief resident in orthopedic surgery at Duke University Medical Center.

   But she said gene therapy, including the use of stem cells taken from a
patient's own bone marrow, shows great promise. Gene therapy also may help with
tears of the rotator cuff, an injury that may affect up to 25% of the older
population.

   An aging and increasingly obese population probably also will result in a
dramatic increase in the number of people with Type II diabetes, said Laurie
Goodyear, a cell biologist and assistant professor of medicine at Harvard
Medical School.

   "In 10 or 15 years, if we don't really change the way things are going, we
could double the number of cases," she said.

   That could mean more than 30 million Americans would have the disease, which
is much more common in inactive, overweight and obese individuals. Exercise and
losing as few as 10 to 15 pounds can allow some people to go off medication, she
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000


                             472 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                    JUNE 2, 2000 Friday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS HAVE TROUBLE RECRUITING FOR GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: Associated Press

DATELINE: DENVER

BODY:

   Scientists say they're having trouble recruiting volunteers for gene therapy
trials following the death of a patient last year and a resulting federal
crackdown on experiments.

   Researchers attending the annual meeting of the American Society for Gene
Therapy in Denver asked for the public's patience as they try to rescue what had
been the hottest field in science from the flames of controversy.

   Last week, federal health officials proposed fines of up to $1 million for
scientists and their universities who violate medical research rules governing
genetic trials.

   The penalties were prompted by the death last September of Jesse Gelsinger,
18, at the University of Pennsylvania.

   The Tucson, Ariz., teen-ager suffered from a rare metabolic disorder.
Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania had infused his liver with a virus
that was supposed to spread new, corrective DNA in his cells. But the virus
triggered a fatal immune-system reaction.

   The university's gene therapy institute and its director were barred from
conducting trials with human patients after more safety violations and possible
financial conflicts of interest were revealed.

   Other researchers said Gelsinger's death has made recruiting new patients
more difficult.

   "Philadelphia has been the epicenter over the past year and it has affected
us," said Katherine High of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Her gene
therapy trial is boosting levels of a blood-clotting protein in hemophiliacs,
but the treatment has been limited to few patients.

   Even before Gelsinger's death, hemophiliacs were apprehensive about medical
experiments after tainted blood supplies in the 1980s exposed them to the AIDS
virus and hepatitis.

   "If there is a population that has a right to be reluctant to trying new
therapies, this would be the one," High said. "There is a lot of concern among
people."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002


                             473 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 2, 2000, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-18, HEALTH & SCIENCE ROUNDUP

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BRAIN STEM CELLS BECOME THOSE OF OTHER ORGANS

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- Research in mice suggests that stem cells from the adult brain
can be nurtured into heart, liver, muscle and other tissues. The finding may
eliminate the ethical dilemma now blocking stem cell studies that use human
fetal tissues.

   The mouse study, by researchers in Sweden, found that neural stem cells taken
from the central nervous system of adult mice and transferred to mouse and
chicken embryos were converted into the cell types that are found in a variety
of body tissues and organs.

   One part of the study, appearing today in the journal Science, showed that
some neural stem cells converted to become part of a beating heart in a mouse
embryo.

   Under federal law, the National Institutes of Health is forbidden to finance
human embryo research. After recent stem cell studies, the agency has proposed
changing the regulations, but some members of Congress oppose the change.

   The objections to embryonic stem cell research centers on the fact that such
cells must be taken from an embryo or a fetus, usually after an abortion.

   New breast cancer gene

   HERSHEY, Pa. -- A team of researchers at Penn State's College of Medicine has
identified a gene that could signal hope for the thousands of women annually
diagnosed with breast cancer.

   The gene, labeled BRMS 1 by the team and found on chromosome 11, blocks the
ability of human breast cancer cells to spread, said Dan Welch, associate
professor of pathology at the college and lead researcher.

   Penn State has applied for a patent for the BRMS 1 gene.

   "This gives us a new target to fight cancer in patients," said Welch, whose
pioneering work is described in the June issue of the journal Cancer Research.

   Finicky Lyme bacterium

   WASHINGTON -- The bacterium that causes Lyme disease has been identified as
the first disease-causing germ that does not need to take iron from the blood
stream of its host.

   Dr. Frank Gherardini of the University of Georgia said that other bacteria
that cause disease have evolved a strategy to scavenge from the blood of victims
the iron that is essential to their survival.

   But Borrelia burgdorferi, which causes Lyme disease, apparently evolved a
biological strategy that does not need iron, thus avoiding the problems that
other bacteria have in getting iron from the blood stream.

   A report on the study appears today in the journal Science.

   Lyme disease is caused by a microbe that is spread to humans through a tick
bite. The disease can cause headache, fever, stiff joints and fatigue. It can be
treated effectively with antibiotics.

   Gene therapy slowdown

   DENVER -- Scientists say they are having trouble recruiting volunteers for
gene therapy trials following the death of a patient last year and a resulting
federal crackdown on experiments.

   Researchers attending the annual meeting of the American Society for Gene
Therapy in Denver asked for the public's patience yesterday as they try to
rescue what had been the hottest field in science from the flames of
controversy.

   Researchers at the meeting reported "spectacular" results in a few, isolated
trials to treat rare inherited diseases. They reported modest progress in the
genetic treatment of more common and complex diseases such as cancer.

   Last week, federal health officials proposed fines of up to $ 1 million for
scientists and their universities who violate medical research rules governing
genetic trials.

   Last September, Jesse Gelsinger, 18, of Tucson, Ariz., died in a gene therapy
trial at the University of Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2000


                             474 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  June 1, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Page 12; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT;
Unlike Viruses, Bacteria Find a Welcome in the World of Computing

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG

BODY:

   CAN living cells be transformed into computers? A number of researchers are
betting that the answer is yes. They are trying to use DNA, in and out of actual
living cells, that can add, subtract, store results and run programs.

   If they succeed, silicon and the microchips it made possible may one day be
replaced by bacteria that can handle computing. Such biological computers could
be able to handle very large numbers of analytical steps simultaneously, a
process called parallel computing, and might be able to do that cheaply.

    Not quite yet, though. While scientists seek to hijack the biological
controls already present in cells and reprogram them for their own purposes, no
one knows how to get a billion or so cells talking to one another in a
controlled fashion.

   But a few advances have been made in this new crossover field in science,
part of a new area called biological computing, or biocomputing. While
biocomputing includes ways to do rudimentary computing with DNA itself,
scientists have begun looking at ways to do computations in whole cells by
engineering part of the cells' DNA and the machinery controlled by those genes.

   For example, scientists have used genes to build a biological toggle switch,
which corresponds to a fundamental element in computers, and a rudimentary
clock. Such biological clocks might someday mimic the clocks that synchronize
various programs in computers.

   A start-up company has even been set up to create what its founders call
"genetic applets," pieces of DNA that handle functions analogous to those
handled by pieces of computer code.

   Some of the work on DNA-based computing is being done by computer scientists,
physicists, mathematicians and engineers who have never taken a graduate biology
class but have learned on the job. Many of these scientists are finding that
research in the dry world of silicon has not prepared them for the uncertainties
of a "wet" laboratory, where their mathematical models need to come alive.

   "This is nanotechnology in a wetter form, namely in a living cell," said Dr.
James J. Collins, a professor of biomedical engineering at Boston University who
is a physicist by training and has become a leader in biocomputing. "We are
probably decades away from having a jar of bacteria computing on your desk, but
we are nearing the point where you can have cells programmed for different
functions, and therefore be considered as computing devices."

   Dr. Collins and his colleagues have in fact demonstrated it is possible to
program cells by injecting new gene networks engineered from strips of DNA into
the cells so that the cells respond to changes in their environment in ways that
could one day be useful for computations. The mechanisms are slow and cumbersome
-- on the order of minutes, if not hours, and as much as a billion times slower
than the computations of current electronic computers. But it is early days in
the world of genetic circuits.

   At Boston University, a step toward a future of synthetic, programmable gene
circuits was taken about two years ago by Dr. Collins and Dr. Timothy S.
Gardner, who was a graduate student in Dr. Collins's group at the time and
coined the term genetic applets.

   Dr. Collins's laboratory wanted to create the biological version of a basic
element in a digital circuit, the on-off toggle.

   "We were looking for the equivalent of a light switch to flip processes on or
off in the cell," Dr. Gardner said. "Then I realized a way to do this with genes
instead of with electric circuits."

   The idea meshed with the mathematical modeling the researchers were doing to
predict how switches would behave in the world of living cells, where responses
are often not the simple, predictable ones of a linear system. "We created a
nonlinear model and made some predictions about how the switch would behave in a
cell," Dr. Gardner said. "Then basically there was nothing left to do except
build it."

   The idea was to engineer a circular section of DNA with two genes that
inhibit each other, so the first gene is on while the second one is off, and
vice versa. Those states can be thought of as a zero or 1, just as a silicon
switch is on or off. The gene network is prodded to switch from one state to the
other by a dose of a particular chemical or a change of temperature. If the cell
is given enough of the chemical, for instance, the inactive gene will turn on;
by turning on, it turns off the other gene.

   Of course, like many scientists in this crossover field, Dr. Gardner has had
scant formal preparation in biology (one molecular biology class taken as a
college sophomore). "Most biologists thought I was crazy," he said. But at least
one did not: Dr. Charles R. Cantor, a molecular biologist at Boston University
and a leader of the Human Genome Project. He thought that the idea was promising
and lent laboratory space and guidance.

   Within a year, Dr. Gardner had built the switch -- fragments of DNA cut and
pasted together and inserted into a bacterial cell, where the switch worked just
fine. The results were reported in the journal Nature in January.

   Other laboratories working on related problems in cell computation and the
design of genetic networks include that of Dr. Stanislas Leibler at Princeton
University, where Dr. Michael B. Elowitz devised a type of biological clock that
will work within a cell.  Dr. Elowitz worked on the project as a graduate
student and is now a postdoctoral fellow at Rockefeller University.

   The system consists of four genes put into a bacterium; Dr. Elowitz calls it
a genetic circuit. Each of the first three genes inhibits the activity of the
next gene down the line. The fourth gene controls the production of a
fluorescent protein, so the pulses of fluorescence indicate the periodic output
of the clock.

   Dr. Elowitz said the output could be viewed as "something like the hands of a
watch." But the biological clock shows a good deal of variation, or signal
noise, he said, so it may need more elaborate molecular controls. "We are
working on the source of the noise," he said. The results of the research are
reported in a January issue of the journal Nature.

   While Dr. Elowitz's project is still in the laboratory stage, Drs. Gardner
and Collins have started a company called Cellicon Biotechnologies. The name is
taken from the words cell and control and the word silicon, the material the
technology may one day usurp. While their biological switch and extensions of it
could have a future in biocomputing, they said such switches could have
immediate results in gene therapy.

   The current commercial techniques for activating therapeutic genes require
the continual application of a drug to keep the gene active. If a drug could be
used to flip a genetic switch to the on position, and that switch could then
turn on the gene that is needed by the patient, the gene would presumably stay
on until another drug or other signal was used to switch it off. "With the
toggle, which only requires transient delivery to switch the system from off to
on," Dr. Collins said, "you would only need to take a drug once, removing the
dependence on sustained drug ingestion."

   Most applications of biological computing are far in the future. The
old-fashioned, silicon-based electronic way is certainly not threatened yet, and
it is in fact integral to the analytical calculations, modeling and simulations
that many of the scientists-turned-biologists do before they get down to bench
work. But one day there may indeed be that unlikely thing, computers in a flask,
and even injectable cells that will travel through the body to help the patient.

   After all, if cells can be made to compute at scientists' bidding, instead of
doing just the computing that nature intended, biological problems are the ones
that cells are most suited to solve.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000


                             475 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                      May 31, 2000 Wednesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: DESPITE POPULARITY, FARMPARK FIGHTS TO TURN A PROFIT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCOTT; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

DATELINE: KIRTLAND

BODY:

   Lake County's Farmpark is staking its future on the past.

   With 10 years under its 233-acre green belt this month, the Farmpark is
reflecting on a decade that saw 1.5 million people pass through its turnstiles -
nearly a third of them schoolchildren.

   "And some of those kids are adults now, so where else would they take their
kids to see a farm?" reasoned Lake Metroparks Executive Director Dave A. Noble.
"Remember, children make the leisure decisions for most families."

   Each day last week, close to 600 schoolchildren packed the Farmpark grounds
to watch sheep get shorn, dairy cows get milked and draft horses pull their
weight.

   Among them were 40 first-graders from McKinley Elementary School in Lakewood,
city kids who experienced Farmpark firsthand.

   "I like the sheep because when he baaaa'd I thought he burped," 7-year-old
Kevin Lowman said.

   Later, a startled ewe went a little beyond a benign bleat: first soaking and
then scattering droppings around a mat at the start of a shearing show.

   A grandstand crowd of nearly 100 elementary school kids loudly endorsed the
action: boys with fitting bathroom humor and girls with an "ew, gross!" refrain.

   Not pretty, but a fundamental of farm life.

   "Our continued emphasis has got to be education," Noble said. "But at the
same time, we have to be concerned about the entertainment value for young
children and families.

   "We don't have a new roller coaster every year, but that's what we're
competing against. We have to consider ourselves an agriculture theme park - we
show what farming was and what the future of farming might be."

   Noble considers the park a regional attraction. It drew 86,025 visitors last
year from 17 states and three countries. Last year marked the sixth straight
that attendance climbed. It has increased a total of 20 percent since 1993.

   Despite the Farmpark's popularity, Lake Metroparks has had to subsidize its
budget by close to $1 million each year since its inception. This year's
projected support is about $1.2 million of a $2.1 million total budget.

   That disparity forces the Metroparks to face a perennial question: Will
Farmpark ever make money?

   It's a question rooted in a statement by Noble's predecessor, Leon Younger,
who predicted that the Farmpark could someday at least break even. Officials now
say that was when Farmpark, once a real farm that dated to the early 1800s, was
seen more as a working farm that would produce crops. A higher admission fee
also was envisioned.

   Crop production is now limited to gardens and a greenhouse, and admission is
$6 at its highest.

   "I think people have accepted that this is an educational facility and park
that is relatively inexpensive for people to go to but that will always need
some operating support," Baker said.

   The Farmpark was worth the subsidy, said Parks Board member Theodore Klammer.

   "The board is desirous of putting less and less subsidy into the Farmpark,
but we understand that the attendance is up, people are interested, and we have
to preserve this type of thing for our children and their children," Klammer
said.

   Farmpark's success has other park systems looking at the Lake County
attraction for possible duplication.

   Alan McKnight, planning administrator for the Columbus City Recreation
Department, visited the Farmpark last week. McKnight said Columbus and Franklin
County jointly own 1,000 acres south of the city - part of which might become a
farm park of sorts.

   "We're looking at various options, but nothing as grand as the scale in Lake
County," McKnight said. "There are already historical farms around, but we like
the things they do there with hands-on activities for kids."

   Original Metroparks board member Ellen Foley Kessler said the park "has a
brilliant future because it has remained connected to education."

   "This is no petting farm," Kessler said. "This has proven to be not only a
park but an education."

   Farmpark officials said they also were planning for a future that retains the
historical aspects of the park while keeping a keen eye on the changing future
of farming.

   "We'd like to do more with animal science, " said Farmpark Manager Rob
Preseran, the park's first employee in 1987.

   Noble went even further: "There are things going on today like gene therapy
and cloning that we need to help people understand," he said.

   But don't expect the Farmpark to be switching from shearing to cloning in the
sheep barn just yet.

   "No, but there are new aspects to farming that people aren't very aware of,"
Noble said. "Fish farms are another good example. More and more of the fish we
eat will be grown that way."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO CREDIT; Rap-rocker Kid Rock releases "The History of Rock," a
13-track collection of old and new material, today.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000


                             476 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                      May 30, 2000, Tuesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Researchers say smoking may play big role in gum disease, tooth loss

SOURCE: Houston Chronicle News Services

DATELINE: CHICAGO

BODY:

   CHICAGO - Cigarette smoking may play a major role in more than half of the
cases of severe gum disease in adults nationwide, suggesting that one of the
main causes of tooth loss could be prevented, a government study shows.

   While it has long been known that smoking can help cause gum disease, this is
the first national study to show how widespread the problem is, said Dr. Scott
Tomar, a researcher with the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

   Jack Caton, president of the American Academy of Periodontology, called the
numbers "staggering" and said the study should "compel even more dental care
providers to get involved in tobacco cessation efforts."

   Current smokers were about four times more likely than people who never
smoked to have periodontitis, but ex-smokers who had abstained for 11 years
faced no increased risk, according to Tomar, whose findings were published in
the May issue of the Journal of Periodontology. Overall, 52.8 percent of
periodontitis in the study was attributed to current and former smoking.

   Periodontitis, advanced gum disease that destroys the tissue and bone
surrounding the teeth, is generally caused by bacteria contained in plaque
buildup.

   Researchers believe smoking causes damage that makes the gums more vulnerable
to bacterial infection. Tobacco can suppress the body's immune system, impeding
its ability to fight infection. It also reduces blood flow to the gums,
depriving them of oxygen and nutrients that allow gums to stay healthy, Tomar
said.

   Smoking and periodontitis were both more common in black men and low-income
adults - findings in line with U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher's report last
week on a "silent epidemic" of oral disease in minorities and low-income
Americans. Tobacco use was one of the factors blamed for the problem in the
report.

    Gene therapy may be used on MD

    WASHINGTON - Gene therapy may work to help treat Duchenne muscular
dystrophy, a deadly inherited disease that causes a painful degeneration of the
muscles, researchers said on Monday.

   Working with dogs that have a similar disease, a U.S. government team said
they had used a special kind of gene therapy to treat the animals.

   They hope their work can translate into humans, but it can take years to try
something on people that has worked in animals.

   Richard Bartlett and colleagues at the National Institute of Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), one of the National Institutes of
Health, reported in the journal Nature Biotechnology that they used a golden
retriever bred to have a form of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which is the most
common childhood form of MD in humans.

   Gene therapy for MD has been difficult because the gene is so large it cannot
be delivered easily using a virus or direct injection of DNA.

   Bartlett's team tried making the genes repair themselves using a chimeric
oligonucleotide, which is made in the lab and includes both DNA - the genetic
code - and RNA, which is the working molecule that actually causes the
production of proteins by cells based on DNA's instructions.

   The idea was to get the cells in the dog to go to work repairing the DNA
damage seen in MD.

   The dog was killed after 11 months and examination showed the cells had
repaired themselves, they reported.

    Stem cells offer hope for Parkinson's

    WASHINGTON - Researchers said Monday they had coaxed stem cells - the body's
master or seed cells - into becoming specific neurons they hope one day may be
used to treat Parkinson's disease.

   Stem cells are a great new hope for medicine. The variety known as embryonic
stem cells have the potential to become any kind of cell in the body at all.

   But researchers have had trouble controlling them. These cells can develop
into any cell, but the problem is trying to direct how they develop.

   If this could be done, experts agree they could be used as tissue
transplants, for basic research and perhaps even to grow entire organs for
transplant.

   Ron McKay of the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke
(NINDS) and colleagues, writing in the journal Nature Biotechnology, said they
had found a way to make mouse stem cells turn into neurons, to make virtually
unlimited amounts of them and to make them produce important compounds.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000


                             477 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2000 The Indianapolis Star
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Indianapolis Star (Indiana)

                              May 30, 2000 Tuesday
                               CITY FINAL Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Research profits

BODY:

   A much needed parting shot was taken by Dr. Marcia Angell, who is resigning
as editor of the New England Journal of Medicine. In an editorial, she asked,
"Is Academic Medicine for Sale?" and strongly suggested that it is.

   She is not the only one troubled by the growing influence of industry funding
on medical research. Today, 70 percent of the financing for clinical testing of
drugs and devices comes from industry sources, not from government, which used
to be the case.

   The new partnerships have produced dramatic advances against disease, as
Angell noted, but they can erode the sense of objectivity essential to good
research. She said the gifts, trips, speaking and consulting fees lavished on
researchers can subtly influence them toward more favorable findings for a
firm's products.

   She urged major medical schools to adopt rules governing conflicts of
interest, including banning stock ownership in companies whose products are
being studied and prohibiting some writing and speaking arrangements.

   Fueling much of the industry-research alliance is the explosion of gene
therapy experiments and the rush to beat out the competition. Many, perhaps
most, academic scientists have industry ties; some are partners or have started
their own firms.

   A fear is that scientific integrity will be lost in the chase for profits.
Researchers may be tempted to withhold information about side effects or
downplay the danger of some experiments.

   An example of such sorry results came to light when the government halted all
clinical trials in gene therapy at the University of Pennsylvania. A teen-age
volunteer died in the course of the experiments and four other volunteers
suffered serious side effects.

   Government investigators cited numerous research violations and failures to
protect the human research subjects. Also, the key figure in the gene therapy
studies was found to have a large monetary stake in the outcome.

   The Journal and other medical periodicals must stress the need to immunize
scientific judgment against greed. Where they are found, transgressions should
be widely denounced. Some argue that the personal integrity of scientists helps
them resist conflicting pressures. We hope that's overwhelmingly the case. But a
little professional coercion won't hurt.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009


                             478 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                      May 30, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 6; Editorial Writers Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: FACING THE 'HEP C' CRISIS

BODY:


   Mounting evidence suggests that hepatitis C, a little known but often fatal
disease, has reached epidemic proportions in the state, infecting half a million
Californians and 41% of the state's prison population.

   Despite its prevalence, which public health experts call "mind-boggling,"
state officials are only now considering programs to diagnose and treat the
disease, which typically spreads among drug addicts sharing infected needles or
having unprotected sex.

   The state's reluctance to confront "hep C" is particularly unfortunate
because early detection is key to treating this "silent killer," so named
because of its ability to wreak havoc on the liver years before any symptoms
surface. When identified early, hep C can be treated with medication, dietary
change and even gene therapy. Left untreated, liver failure is common. It is the
leading factor for liver transplants in the United States.

   The logical place to begin reining in the epidemic is the California state
prison system, which houses the largest concentration of hep C victims in the
nation. In a letter to Youth and Adult Correctional Agency Director Robert
Presley last December, California Department of Corrections Director Cal Terhune
said he will "continue to monitor" the disease. He suggested a study of whether
inmates in a drug counseling program at San Quentin state prison have contracted
fewer cases of hep C. But that's a far too cautious response to a disease that
is, as Jeff Thompson of the California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. puts
it, "running rampant in our prisons."

   State legislators and Gov. Gray Davis can and should move with more urgency
and approve $ 5.2 million that the state Senate recently set aside to start hep
C testing, prevention and treatment programs in all state prisons. State leaders
should also approve another $ 5 million the Senate set aside to fund a bill by
state Sen. Richard Polanco (D-Los Angeles) that would develop a statewide plan
for slowing the spread of hep C. The study would help fund efforts like some
undertaken last year in Riverside County, which tested 2,009 adults in its jails
and found that a "staggering" 24% were infected with hep C. Hep C is far more
deadly and expensive to treat than its biological cousins--hepatitis A, a common
and highly treatable liver infection typically spread when food handlers fail to
wash their hands after using the bathroom, and hepatitis B, a more serious but
still curable blood-borne viral disease.

   From another quarter, Congress should prod Veterans Administration officials
into better care of the other key group in which the disease is concentrated,
military veterans. Federal surveys indicate that the rate of infection among
veterans is four to five times higher than in the general population and that
the rate among the 8.1 million Vietnam-era vets is even higher. But VA doctors
will currently treat only veterans who can prove that their hep C infections are
service-related.

   Congress can correct that blunder by passing identical bills by Rep. Vic
Snyder (D-Ark.) in the House and Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) in the Senate
that would compel the VA to treat any veteran with hep C. Taken together, these
modest steps will help rein in an underrecognized disease that public health
officials say will be killing more Americans annually than AIDS by 2010.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             479 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 30, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding With Stem Cells

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

BODY:

   Stem cells, the master cells from which all other cells in the body develop,
might be used to replenish many other tissues.

   Companies are trying to harness the cells to rebuild hearts, bone, blood and
other tissues, part of a field coming to be called regenerative medicine.

    At the Geron Corporation of Menlo Park, Calif., scientists have already
turned embryonic stem cells into heart muscle cells that spontaneously beat in
the test tube. Studies in mice have shown these cells integrate into the heart.
Such stem cell therapy might be used to rebuild hearts after a heart attack,
since heart muscles do not regenerate after being killed.

   Osiris Therapeutics of Baltimore is starting clinical trials to see if stem
cells can be used to regrow bone. It is using mesynchymal stem cells, which turn
into the body's connective tissue, like bones, cartilage, tendons and bone
marrow.

   The biggest existing use of stem cells is for bone marrow transplants to
replenish the body's immune system. This works because the marrow is rich in
hematopoietic stem cells, which turn into blood cells.

   Some companies are trying to make a business of technology that can be used
in stem cell therapy. Aastrom Biosciences of Ann Arbor, Mich., has a device that
can multiply cells, including stem cells.

   Nexell Therapeutics of Irvine, Calif., also has techniques for separating and
growing cells. Its device was used to multiply cells used recently in what is
considered the world's first gene therapy success: French scientists' treatment
of three girls with a rare immune disease.

   Ariad Pharmaceuticals of Cambridge, Mass., recently published a scientific
paper about technology it developed that could help control the growth and
differentiation of stem cells.

   Other uses of stem cells could provide income before cell transplants become
feasible. Geron expects its first stem cell profits to come from making liver
cells that pharmaceutical companies can use to test how well a drug is
metabolized by the liver and whether the drug causes liver toxicity. NeuralStem
Biopharmaceuticals has signed an agreement with Gene Logic, a genomics company,
to use the stem cells to help define the functions of genes.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             480 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 30, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Neural Cells, Grown in Labs, Raise Hopes on Brain Disease

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

BODY:

   Sylvia Elam saw the benefits of her operation as soon as she was wheeled into
the recovery room and ate lunch. For the first time in years, she could taste
the food.

   After a stroke in 1993, Mrs. Elam, of Scottsdale, Ariz., lost most of the
movement and sensation on her right side. But last year she became one of the
first people in the world to have cells manufactured in a laboratory implanted
into her brain. The implant enabled Mrs. Elam, now 66, to talk again without
stammering, to throw a ball with her right arm, to walk somewhat without a cane
and even to drive a car.

    "It was absolutely beyond our wildest dreams," said Mrs. Elam's husband,
Ira.

   Not all cases have had such positive results, but hope is growing that neural
cells implanted into the brain can replace damaged cells and restore functions
lost to stroke, spinal cord injury or neurological diseases like Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's, most of which have no effective treatments.

   "It's almost like reseeding your lawn," said Dr. Evan Y. Snyder, a
neurologist at Children's Hospital in Boston and at Harvard Medical School, who
has successfully used the technique to treat rats with a disease similar to
multiple sclerosis.

   In Mrs. Elam's case, a few months after the operation she suffered setbacks
as a result of a second, apparently unrelated, stroke.

   The quest to restore the neural connections in the brain has been spurred by
two recent scientific developments. One was the isolation of so-called stem
cells, the primordial cells from which all others evolve, that can potentially
be made into neural cells for transplantation.

   In addition, in tests conducted in animals, the cells have had the ability to
migrate through the brain to where they are needed to repair damage.

   A second development was the discovery that adult brains continue to produce
new cells, overturning conventional wisdom that brain cells are not replenished.
This suggests some capacity for nervous system regeneration.

   The discoveries have set off a race by companies hoping to develop cells to
be sold for neural transplantation, part of the larger field of regenerative
medicine. But harnessing such cells will require negotiating a minefield not
only of technical challenges but of ethical ones, since most stem cells come
from either embryos discarded by fertility clinics or aborted fetuses.

   Some scientists and business executives worry that the neural implant field
will repeat the history of gene therapy, which has gone through 10 years of
largely dashed hopes, controversial clinical trials and burned investors, though
there have been some recent signs of success.

   "We would do well to learn the lesson from the troubled path of the gene
therapy field: not to promise too much too early," wrote Anders Bjorklund and
Olle Lindvall, Swedish scientists, in a commentary in the June issue of Nature
Neuroscience.

   They said they see signs of a rush toward "ill-founded clinical trials"
without adequate scientific rationale.

   Still, the two scientists have been implanting brain tissue from aborted
human fetuses into the brains of people with Parkinson's disease, which causes a
loss of motor skills, for almost a decade. In some patients the treatment has
caused a slight improvement in motor control, which has lasted 5 to 10 years.

   But such treatment, which has also been done in this country, requires
several fetuses for each patient. Moral questions notwithstanding, there are
simply not enough fetuses to treat this nation's million or more Parkinson's
patients.

   So scientists are searching for cells that can be mass produced -- "neurons
in a bottle," said George W. Dunbar Jr., acting chief executive officer of
StemCells Inc., in Sunnyvale, Calif., one of the companies pursuing the
treatments.

   The cells implanted in Mrs. Elam were supplied by Layton BioScience Inc.,
also of Sunnyvale, and derived from testicular cancer cells isolated from a
patient in the 1970's. Scientists found, almost serendipitously, that when
treated with chemicals called retinoids, some of the cells turned into neural
cells. Six of the 12 stroke patients treated with the cells had some improvement
in motor skills, said Dr. John Kondziolka, the University of Pittsburgh
neurosurgeon who performed the operations.

   Similar hints of success have been found in clinical trials run by Diacrin
Inc. of Charlestown, Mass., the company furthest along in neural cell implants.
It harvests brain cells from pig fetuses, which have been used to treat more
than 20 Parkinson's patients and several with stroke, Huntington's disease and
epilepsy.

   But there are fears the cancer-derived cells could cause cancer and that
cells from pigs could infect patients with animal viruses.

   Diacrin recently suspended its trials on stroke victims after two of five
patients suffered seizures, though the company does not think the pig cells were
the cause. While Layton and Diacrin say their cells are safe, some experts think
they will eventually be replaced by alternatives that are less unappealing to
patients.

   That would mean human stem cells, which can be grown in great quantities. The
greatest excitement revolves around so-called embryonic stem cells, which were
first isolated in 1998 by Dr. James Thomson of the University of Wisconsin.
These cells can turn into virtually any cell in the body -- including the liver,
kidney, blood or heart, as well as neurons.

   But such cells are at the center of an ethical controversy, with opponents
saying it is immoral to use embryos for medical purposes. By law, federal money
cannot be used for research involving the destruction of embryos.

   The National Institutes of Health has proposed new guidelines to allow
scientists receiving its money to work with the cells, provided that the cells
are created with private money.

   Senators Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Tom Harkin, Democrat
of Iowa, have proposed a bill that would ease the restrictions. But abortion
opponents remain opposed to any such relaxation.

   The research ban does not affect scientists with corporate financing, which
has allowed companies to dominate the field.

   Geron Corporation of Menlo Park, Calif., which financed the work at
Wisconsin, has commercial rights to the embryonic stem cells. It also has the
patent rights to a similar type of primordial cell isolated by Dr. John Gearhart
of Johns Hopkins University, also with Geron financing.

   Other companies, looking to sidestep both Geron's patents and the ethical
issues surrounding embryonic cells, are using so-called neural stem cells on
which they have obtained patents. These are less versatile than embryonic stem
cells. They can turn into different types of neural cells but probably not into
others, like kidney or liver cells.

   But those working with neural stem cells say that might even be an advantage
for treating a neurological disease. Embryonic stem cells "turn into bone cells
and knee cells," said I. Richard Garr, president and chief executive of
NeuralStem Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. of College Park, Md. "You can't put them in a
person's head without being 100 percent sure they won't turn into these other
things."

   Dr. Thomas B. Okarma, president and chief executive of Geron, countered that
embryonic cells could more easily be multiplied and made to live forever than
the neural stem cells, providing an endless supply. "The more upstream you
start, the more total control," he said.

   In neural stem cells, NeuralStem is competing with StemCells Inc., a publicly
traded company that was known as CytoTherapeutics Inc. until it abandoned its
previous business to focus on stem cells. Layton, which made the cells used on
Mrs. Elam, has now also moved into neural stem cells by obtaining from
Children's Hospital in Boston a license for a line of cells developed by Dr.
Snyder.

   The other companies also have strong scientific credentials. NeuralStem was
founded by scientists from the National Institutes of Health laboratory of Dr.
Ronald McKay, a pioneer in neural stem cells.

   StemCells counts among its scientific advisers Dr. Irving L. Weissman, a stem
cell expert at Stanford, and Dr. Fred H. Gage of the Salk Institute for
Biological Sciences, who made some of the crucial discoveries that the adult
brain can grow new cells.

   Other companies in the emerging field include ReNeuron Ltd. in London and
Neuronyx of Malvern, Pa., which is headed by Hubert Schoemaker, the former chief
executive of Centocor, a leading biotechnology company now owned by Johnson &
Johnson.

   The neural stem cells are not free of ethical controversy, since they
generally come from fetuses. But the companies say that since they can multiply
the cells in the laboratory, they might need only a single fetus to supply
hundreds of patients, if not the entire world demand.

   "If we had to go back to human fetal material on a continuing basis, that
would be a concern," said Gary L. Snabel, president and chief executive of
Layton. But with only a few fetuses needed for all time, "most people would say
that's not an unreasonable strategy."

   The recent discoveries that adult brains still contain some stem cells makes
it possible to derive such cells from adults, which would remove the ethical
questions. But the scientists say the fetal cells are easier to obtain and
easier to grow and that adult stem cells might lack the resiliency of the
embryonic or fetal ones.

   There are still many technical problems to overcome with both neural stem
cells and embryonic stem cells, and it could be several years before clinical
trials begin.

   The biggest challenge is trying to get the stem cells to reliably turn into a
single desired type of cell, which is usually done by exposing the cells to
certain growth factors or implanting particular genes in them. This cannot be
done yet for embryonic stem cells, though there has been progress.

   Dr. McKay of the health institutes has turned mouse embryonic stem cells into
neural cells that produce dopamine, the chemical lacking in patients with
Parkinson's.

   Another approach is to use drugs to try to stimulate the brain to grow its
own new cells.

   Harry M. Tracy, publisher of Neuroinvestment, an investment newsletter in
Rye, N.H., that follows the neurological medicine companies, said some of the
drugs might reach the market before stem cell implants. Still, he said, a
combination of both approaches would probably be needed.

   http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2000, Thursday

CORRECTION:

   An article in Science Times on Tuesday about laboratory-grown neural cells
misstated the given name of a doctor who implanted them into the brains of
stroke patients. He is Dr. Douglas Kondziolka, not John.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             481 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                             May 30, 2000, Tuesday

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: GENE-THERAPY TARGETS MD

BODY:

   Gene therapy may one day help treat people suffering from the deadly Duchenne
muscular dystrophy, researchers said yesterday.

   A U.S. government team working with dogs bred to have a form of the inherited
degenerative disease said they used a special kind of gene therapy to treat the
animals.

   They hope their technique can be used in humans someday.

   Duchenne MD, the most common lethal genetic disease of childhood.

   Richard Bartlett and colleagues at the National Institute of Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases reported in the journal Nature Biotechnology
their lab-made chimeric oligonucleotide got the dogs' cells to use their own
repair mechanism to "fix" the bad gene. Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             482 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             May 30, 2000, Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS;Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Neural-cell implants raise hopes on nervous-system regeneration

BYLINE: Andrew Pollack; NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE

BODY:
 Sylvia Elam saw the benefits of her operation as soon as she was wheeled into
the recovery room and ate lunch.  For the first time in years, she could taste
the food.

   After a stroke in 1993, Elam, of Scottsdale, Ariz., lost most of the movement
and sensation on her right side.  But last year she became one of the first
people in the world to have cells manufactured in a laboratory implanted into
her brain.  The implant enabled Elam, now 66, to talk again without stammering,
to throw a ball with her right arm, to walk somewhat without a cane and to drive
a car.

   "It was absolutely beyond our wildest dreams," said Elam's husband, Ira.

   Not all cases have had such positive results, but hope is growing that neural
cells implanted in the brain can replace damaged cells and restore functions
lost to stroke, spinal cord injury or neurological diseases such as Parkinson's
and Alzheimer's, most of which have no effective treatments.

   "It's almost like reseeding your lawn," said Dr. Evan Snyder, a neurologist
at Children's Hospital in Boston and at Harvard Medical School, who has
successfully used the technique to treat rats with a disease similar to multiple
sclerosis.

   The quest to restore the neural connections in the brain has been spurred by
two recent scientific developments.  One was the isolation of so-called stem
cells, the primordial cells from which all others evolve, that can potentially
be made into neural cells for transplantation.

   In addition, in tests conducted in animals, the cells have had the ability to
migrate through the brain to where they are needed to repair damage.

   A second development was the discovery that adult brains continue to produce
new cells, overturning conventional wisdom that brain cells are not replenished.
This suggests some capacity for nervous system regeneration.

   The discoveries have set off a race by companies hoping to develop cells to
be sold for neural transplantation, part of the larger field of regenerative
medicine.  But harnessing such cells will require negotiating a minefield not
only of technical challenges but of ethical ones, since most stem cells come
from either embryos discarded by fertility clinics or aborted fetuses.

   Some scientists and business executives worry that the neural implant field
will repeat the history of gene therapy, which has gone through 10 years of
largely dashed hopes, controversial clinical trials and burned investors, though
there have been some recent signs of success.

   "We would do well to learn the lesson from the troubled path of the gene
therapy field: not to promise too much too early," wrote Anders Bjorklund and
Olle Lindvall, Swedish scientists, in a commentary in the June issue of Nature
Neuroscience.

   Still, the two scientists have been implanting brain tissue from aborted
human fetuses into the brains of people with Parkinson's disease, which causes a
loss of motor skills, for almost a decade.  In some patients the treatment has
caused a slight improvement in motor control, which has lasted five to 10 years.

   But such treatment, which has also been done in this country, requires
several fetuses for each patient.  Moral questions notwithstanding, there are
simply not enough fetuses to treat this nation's million or more Parkinson's
patients.

   So scientists are searching for cells that can be mass produced -- "neurons
in a bottle," said George W. Dunbar Jr., acting chief executive officer of
StemCells Inc., in Sunnyvale, one of the companies pursuing the treatments.

   The cells implanted in Elam were supplied by Layton BioScience Inc., also of
Sunnyvale, and derived from testicular cancer cells isolated from a patient in
the 1970s. Scientists found, almost serendipitously, that when treated with
chemicals called retinoids, some of the cells turned into neural cells.

   Similar hints of success have been found in clinical trials run by Diacrin
Inc. of Charlestown, Mass., the company furthest along in neural cell implants.
It harvests brain cells from pig fetuses, which have been used to treat more
than 20 Parkinson's patients and several with stroke, Huntington's disease and
epilepsy.

   But there are fears the cancer-derived cells could cause cancer and that
cells from pigs could infect patients with animal viruses.

   Experts think these techniques eventually will be replaced by alternatives
that are less unappealing to patients.

   That would mean human stem cells, which can be grown in great quantities.

   But such cells are at the center of an ethical controversy, with opponents
saying it is immoral to use embryos for medical purposes.  By law, federal money
cannot be used for research involving the destruction of embryos.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000


                             483 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      May 30, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals brace for new sources of infection

BYLINE: Elizabeth Neus; Gannett News Service

BODY:

   Even as hospitals work to prevent patients from being infected
with dangerous new versions of old diseases, they are beginning
to prepare for hospital-based infections from unusual sources.

   They are learning how to properly sterilize gear used by people
with a possibly contagious brain disease. They are organizing
to keep biological terror from spreading in the hospital. And
they are wondering what will happen when virus-based gene therapy
becomes the norm.


   "All of us who have responsibility for infection control will
be asked to comment on the safety of vectors in our institution,"
says Martin Evans, chief of hospital epidemiology for the University
of Kentucky Medical Center.

   Hospital-based infections cause 2 million illnesses a year in
the USA. Because hospital patients usually are weak, they are
susceptible to infections healthy people don't have to worry about.

   But many of those infections are becoming resistant to antibiotics,
which troubles doctors greatly, and anyone who enters a hospital
is at risk of infection if hospital workers don't practice proper
infection control -- washing hands, wearing gloves and gowns,
isolating infectious patients.

   Meanwhile, new problems are emerging, researchers told a recent
meeting of the American Society of Microbiology.

   Since the discovery in 1996 that the agent that caused "mad cow"
disease in the United Kingdom could be passed to people, there
has been concern about other diseases caused by that same agent,
called a prion.

   Normal sterilization and disinfection procedures don't work to
clean medical equipment used on people with one of those diseases,
Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD), says William Rutala, an author
of the Association for Professionals in Infection Control and
Epidemiology's disinfection guidelines.

   About 200 cases of CJD worldwide have been linked to medical procedures.
Most came through transplantation of infected brain tissue or
the injection of human growth hormone, but six came through the
use of contaminated medical instruments. The most recent was in
1976; none of those six was in the USA.

   The disease, a degenerative brain disorder that kills in less
than a year and has no treatment, is transmitted primarily through
contact with infected brain tissue, spinal cord or eyes, Rutala
says. But intensive sterilization of equipment -- at higher temperatures
for longer times -- is necessary only if you have a high-risk
patient with infected high-risk tissue.

   Guidelines are in draft form at the federal Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention's Web site (www.cdc.gov), Rutala says,
and should be formally published soon.

   Gene therapy, increasingly controversial because of patient deaths
during early research, still holds great promise, Evans says,
and hospitals soon will have to think about patients being treated
with viruses mingling with other very sick patients.

   In most forms of the therapy, the genes are delivered to the cells
via a virus, often one of the type that causes the common cold
and other respiratory ailments, or other viruses that replicate
well in the body. While these viruses have little or no impact
on healthy people, sick people with weak immune systems can be
hit hard, Evans says. The adenovirus, which causes colds, has
a 10% to 60% mortality rate among bone marrow transplant patients.

   Infection control experts have to start thinking about the community
as well as the hospital they work for, Evans says.

   "Even though we give these (treatments) in an acute-care center,
there are protocols for outpatient settings. It's a fertile area
of research for infection control," he says.



LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             484 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                              May 29, 2000, Monday

SECTION: NWANEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: St. Jude Children's Hospital moves to reopen cancer vaccine tests

BYLINE: MARY POWERS, SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

BODY:

   *NW EDITION*
MEMPHIS -- St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is moving to reopen a cancer
vaccine trial suspended in March pending the results of safety tests.
Those tests found no evidence that two vaccines, produced by using the
techniques of gene therapy, were contaminated with human or animal viruses.
St. Jude sought the tests March 1 to bring the experimental vaccine into
compliance with current federal safety guidelines. At the time, Dr. Laura
Bowman, the St. Jude investigator overseeing the trials, said chances were slim
that the experimental vaccines had inadvertently exposed young cancer patients
to HIV, hepatitis or other viral ailments.
Results from more than 40 tests were forwarded to the Food and Drug
Administration for review, along with the hospital's request to reopen one of
the trials. St. Jude's own research review board will also likely take up the
same request.
Bowman said she hopes one trial, involving young neuroblastoma patients after
bone marrow transplants, will resume within weeks. It takes about four weeks to
produce the experimental vaccine, which is designed to harness the patient's own
immune system to battle neuroblastoma.
"I am very committed to these trials. This disease is devastating. Current
therapies have failed to improve the survival rate [for high-risk patients]
above 30 percent," she said.
Neuroblastoma, the second-most common childhood tumor, affects nerve tissue.
She said it will likely be several months before research with the second
vaccine, which focused on patients whose cancer had returned, resumes.
That's because the trial was being done in conjunction with researchers at
Houston's Baylor College of Medicine. To simplify administration, Bowman said
researchers at both institutions decided to continue the project independently.
That means Bowman must submit her own research proposal to federal agencies and
the hospital's research review board.
The hospital has been under federal scrutiny since July, when the Office for
Protection from Research Risks launched a review of patient safeguards in a St.
Jude leukemia study.
Federal officials are monitoring the hospital's remedies.
In February, the FDA launched a review of two experimental neuroblastoma
vaccines.
That came after an internal hospital review found that cells used to make two
neuroblastoma vaccines apparently hadn't undergone recommended safety screening.

Testing eventually found no evidence of viral contamination. The two trials
closed in January.
St. Jude suspended its two remaining neuroblastoma vaccine trials March 1. The
decision came one day after another internal review found cells used in making
those vaccines hadn't undergone viral screening. The cells had undergone other
safety testing.
Bowman said the FDA didn't require the viral screening in 1993 when the studies
began. The latest round of tests means the vaccines are now in compliance with
federal guidelines.
The trials suspended March 1 involved about 45 patients, including 21 who died
of their disease.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000


                             485 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         MAY 29, 2000 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: HARVARD WON'T RELAX RULES GOVERNING FACULTY RESEARCH

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   Harvard Medical School officials have decided against easing strict
conflict-of-interest rules, a move that would have allowed researchers to make
more money through outside work.

   In a memo to faculty last week, Joseph Martin, dean of the faculty of
medicine, wrote:

   "I believe that the most important role academic medicine can have in
clinical research today is to try to bolster the public's faith in the veracity
and ethical underpinnings of this noble endeavor."

   Martin's decision came one day after the University of Pennsylvania said it
would re-evaluate its own conflict-of-interest policy, following the death of a
young volunteer in a gene-therapy experiment last fall and questions about a
researcher's ties to a private company.

   Martin was a member of an outside panel set up by Penn whose report on the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy was issued Wednesday.

   Dr. Marcia Angell, editor of the New England Journal of Medicine, said she
was delighted with Harvard's decision. "I was concerned that Harvard was going
to relax its guidelines," said Angell, who last week wrote a withering critique
of the research system, saying science is being compromised by the growing
influence of industry money.

   Harvard researchers are prohibited from devoting more than 20 percent of
their time to work outside of Harvard. They are also barred from holding more
than $20,000 worth of stock in a company that finances research in their lab.
Restrictions also apply when they are receiving fees or royalties from a
company.

   The ethics policy, widely considered the toughest in the nation, covers about
8,000 faculty members in 17 affiliated institutions in the Boston area.

   A committee assembled by Martin in 1998 recommended months ago that Harvard
medical faculty be able to own larger amounts of stock and receive higher
consultant fees, and still do company-sponsored research.

   Researchers can have as much financial interest in a company as they want as
long as that company does not pay for research in their lab, the school
stressed. The business and the research must be kept separate, said Margaret
Dale, an associate dean at the medical school who administers ethics rules.

   In his memo, Martin called for a "national dialogue" involving top
universities, government and industry to improve conflict-of-interest policies.

   Last week, federal health officials proposed fines of up to $250,000 for
scientists who violate medical-research rules and fines of $1 million for
rule-breaking universities or hospitals.

   Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said the government would
hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the institution.

   Any proposal must go through Congress, but Shalala announced additional steps
that will start immediately: better training of the local medical boards
primarily responsible for overseeing patient safety, tougher requirements that
patients be fully informed of research risks, and improved monitoring of how
patients fare day-to-day.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             486 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle

                      MAY 29, 2000, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1; BIOSCOPE

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Some Biotech Stocks Get Unfairly Trampled in Nasdaq Stampede;

Matrix, Genentech among companies caught underfoot

BYLINE: Tom Abate

BODY:
Biotech stocks have been trying to maintain their momentum, but bearish
sell-offs in the broader market keep dragging the sector down.

    "When investors sour on the Nasdaq, biotech just can't hold its own," said
Tom Dietz, a partner with Pacific Growth Equities in San Francisco.

    Last week, for instance, a 5.5 percent drop in the Nasdaq wounded biotech
issues and spoiled what should have been an upbeat period for companies fighting
the war on cancer. Cancer is the single-most-important market for biotech
remedies, and a steady stream of positive news emanated from the American
Society of Clinical Oncology meeting in New Orleans.

    But investors, spooked by inflation and interest rate concerns, ignored even
the most promising biotech developments.

    Matrix Pharmaceutical, for instance, announced positive results from a Phase
III trial of a new chemotherapy drug that kills cancer cells with fewer side
effects. Matrix said it would seek government approval to sell its new drug.

    Yet its stock fell nearly 20 percent last week, to close at $8.25 Friday.
That put the Fremont firm back in the same range where it was trading in
February, when biotech was beginning its big spring run.

    Genentech Inc., which released mixed news on new cancer-fighting drugs, was
punished with a 25 percent drop in its share price earlier in the week.
Genentech plunged after it reported that four patients had died from a drug
designed to slow the spread of cancer by cutting off the blood supply to tumors.

    The stock got hit even though the deaths had been previously reported and
the independent cancer researchers who worked on the trial said the remedy was
so promising -- it added three months to the lives of people with advanced lung
cancer -- they wanted to continue testing. Analysts were baffled by the market
overreaction.

    "I've been out pounding the table for Genentech," said Salomon Smith Barney
analyst Meirav Chovav. Genentech recovered some of the losses, but still ended
the week at $102.63, down 19 percent from the previous Friday.

    Jim McCamant, editor of the Medical Technology Stock Letter in Berkeley,
thinks biotech is close to hitting bottom but said there's no telling how long
it will languish at these levels. Summer is traditionally a slow period for
biotech news. The cancer meeting was supposed to have given biotech stocks a
lift to carry them through the summer doldrums. But that didn't happen.

    "Over the next six months, biotech could go lower and come back up or rock
along the bottom," McCamant said. "It's all at the mercy of the larger market
trends."

    Yet biotech retains some positive momentum that doesn't depend on the Nasdaq
or the Dow.

    In recent weeks, money has continued to flow into biotech mutual funds,
according to Bob Adler, president of AMG Services, which tracks money flows. The
money flow slowed to a trickle by May 17 and may even be negative the next time
AMG files a report. But so far, investors seem to be sticking with the sector.

    For all its recent woes, biotech stocks as a whole are still outperforming
the broader markets. One key biotech stock index is up 11 percent year-to-date,
and a second, broader index of 200 issues is down just 2 percent since January.
Both measures are outperforming the Nasdaq, which has slid 21 percent so far
this year, and the S&P 500, which is down 6 percent.

    If -- and it's admittedly a big if -- the broader equity markets ever settle
down, biotech should be in a position to climb.

    But for now, the pros advise caution. Dietz, at Pacific Growth Equities,
says this is the time to study the field, look for big-name companies that have
been beaten down from their spring highs and have started to stabilize.

    But since no one can tell whether this is a genuine bottom, or just a
plateau on the way down, don't invest with expectations of a quick turnaround.

    "Pick stocks you'd want to own over a three-to-five-year horizon," Dietz
said.

    I'd add my own two cents. Earlier in the year when biotech stocks were
soaring beyond all reason, I warned that the good times couldn't last. Indeed,
the bubble was pricked sooner and with greater vengeance than anyone had
expected.

    But now that biotech seems a bit beaten down, it's time to recall the
fundamentals that make this market so attractive over the long term. The aging
of the Baby Boom generation is about to create the largest market for medicines
the world has ever known -- at just the time when biotech firms are showing that
they can make safe and effective remedies from proteins, antibodies and maybe
even gene therapy.

    Now -- when the fickle are looking elsewhere -- is the time for the
disciplined investor to start bargain hunting.

   -- STUDY GUIDE: Cynthia Robbins-Roth is one of those people who has forgotten
more about biotechnology than most people will ever know. Now Robbins-Roth, who
runs her own consulting service in San Mateo, has put some of her folklore and
wisdom into a book, "From Alchemy to IPO: The Business of Biotechnology"
(Perseus Publishing, 253 pages, $26).

    The book traces the early days of biotech at Genentech and Amgen, and leads
readers quickly through the technologies -- and fads -- of the last two decades.
The reader will come away understanding just how long it takes to go from a
brainstorm to a profitable drug.

    A decade ago, for example, scientists got venture capitalists excited about
a new technology called monoclonal antibodies. These are therapeutic proteins
that zero in on specific diseases.

    At first, the VCs got Wall Street to embrace the new fad by taking stock in
new monoclonal antibody companies. But during the long years of proving the new
technique, investors lost patience and interest and the stocks waned in value.

    But the story has a happy ending. Monoclonals have finally started to pay
off. Drugs like Herceptin are part of a new wave of monoclonal antibodies being
approved for sale -- fulfilling promises made a decade ago.

    With that sense of how long it takes to be successful, Robbins-Roth surveys
the technologies -- like gene therapy, stem cell research, tissue
transplantation -- that are getting people excited now and may pay off a decade
hence.

    The writing is energetic, if a bit rambling and prone to digression, much
like a conversation with the author for those who know her. But for the novice
trying to get oriented in a complex market, "From Alchemy to IPO" is like the
crib notes of the past 20 years of biotechnology.



   Look for BioScope every Monday in the Business section. Send your
bio-feedback to Tom Abate by e-mail, abate@sfgate.com; fax, (415) 543-2482; or
phone, (415) 777-6213.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000


                             487 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      May 29, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Telethon hopes to "Go the Extra Mile';

BYLINE: IRENE MAHER;

BODY:


   TAMPA - Their parents call them miracle babies. Infants born long before
their due dates,  weighing just a pound or so, surrounded by tubes, wires and
monitors. They spend weeks, even  months, in the substitute womb of intensive
care.

   When their lungs mature and they can suck nutrition from a bottle, doctors
may finally send them  home.

   A year or two later, the fragile preemie who once fit in the palm of his
dad's hand is a chubby,  fussy baby.

   Seeing these "graduates" of the neonatal intensive care unit is one of the
perks of co-hosting the  All Children's Hospital Telethon.

   "You put our baby on TV during the telethon when he was in the NICU and we
just wanted you to see  how well he's doing now," their parents say.

   They often thank God, but never fail to thank the doctors, nurses, therapists
and other staff  members who help make those miracles happen at All Children's
Hospital in St. Petersburg.

   This year, the hospital is celebrating the opening of The Children's Research
Institute adjacent  to the hospital campus. A project of the University of South
Florida and the hospital, it's 50,000  square feet of laboratory space where six
teams of scientists will search for cures to childhood  diseases.

   The parents of 3-year-old Christian Brigham-Morissette hope the researchers
find answers soon.

   Their son was born with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, an immune system disorder
that few survive  beyond their teens. Christian already has had the only
treatment, a bone marrow transplant, and he  may have to have another. Meantime,
the USF-All Children's scientists are following promising leads  in immunology
and gene therapy, hoping for a breakthrough.

   "Figuring out how to put world-class researchers next door to a world-class
clinical center,  that's the bridge we're trying to build," said Francis
Collins, National Institutes of Health  researcher, during the research
institute's February opening. "This is exactly the model, I think,  that the
places that are most visionary are adopting. I'm counting on this one to be
enormously  successful."

   The 17th annual All Children's Hospital Telethon kicks off Saturday night at
8:30, live from  Busch Gardens and the hospital. If you're a regular viewer of
this fundraiser, you'll notice a few  changes. Steve Jerve joins Bob Hite and
Gayle Sierens at the Festhaus. The News Channel 8 morning  team of Bill Ratliff,
Gayle Guyardo and John Winter will be there early Sunday. Keith Cate joins me
at All Children's, and Stacie Schaible takes over duties at the Taste of
Pinellas in Vinoy Park.

   Another new team member, meteorologist Mace Michaels, will report Sunday from
locations all  around the park including the annual stroller derby, and Pinellas
bureau chief Rod Challenger will  be at the Tyrone Square Mall auction Sunday
afternoon.

   Tune in to Channel 8 for the numbers to phone in a pledge or log onto
www.allkids.org

   Your pledge will sustain more than the hospital and research center in St.
Petersburg. You'll be  helping All Children's fulfill this year's theme to "Go
the Extra Mile" for kids by supporting ACH  Specialty Care centers in Tampa,
Sarasota, Fort Myers, New Port Richey and Lakeland, as well as  therapy centers
in Citrus, Hillsborough, Pasco and Pinellas counties.

   Last year, more than $ 3.4 million dollars was raised.  For information about
health issues, contact Irene Maher at health@wfla.com or WFLA-TV, 200 S. Parker
St., Tampa FL 33606. Neither Channel 8 nor The Tampa Tribune guarantees a
response or on-air  segment featuring the issue.

GRAPHIC: SIGNATURE

NOTES: HEALTH WATCH

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000


                             488 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 28, 2000, Sunday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR;
GENE EXPERIMENTS HAVE BENEFITED PATIENTS

BODY:

   I have benefited from the experimental cardiac gene therapy transfer program
at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center. Others have, too, including the 81-year-old
man reported in your pages on June 17, 1999 ("In a first, cardiac gene therapy
given without surgery," Page A1).

   Your front-page article on Sunday, May 21, ignored the positive results for
many of the participants ("Doctor stirs questions on genetics' frontier").
When the facts are evaluated, I hope the Food and Drug Administration and the
National Institutes of Health will permit these pioneering experimental studies
to continue.

   JOHN FEELY

   Acton

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000


                             489 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         MAY 28, 2000 Sunday D EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL SUNDAY REVIEW; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: PENN DIVIDES GENE-THERAPY PROGRAM

BYLINE: Huntly Collins, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   The University of Pennsylvania's venture into the great-man approach to
science died last week as top school officials announced that they would break
up the gene-therapy research empire overseen by James M. Wilson for more than
half a decade.

   Wilson's Institute for Human Gene Therapy - the darling of former Penn
Medical School dean William N. Kelley - had it all: its own cadre of laboratory
scientists, its own animal laboratories, its own ethics center, its own clinical
trials to test experimental gene drugs on people, even its own manufacturing
plant, a state-of-the-art facility that produced the delivery vehicles used to
insert genes inside human cells.

   Most of that $25 million-a-year program, all built around Wilson, will now be
broken up and placed in other areas of the university as Penn comes to grips
with the institutional ramifications of an Arizona teenager's death during an
institute-sponsored trial here last fall.

   Jesse Gelsinger, 18, of Tucson, died Sept. 17, four days after getting an
experimental gene drug to correct an inherited liver disorder. A subsequent
investigation by the Food and Drug Administration found multiple lapses in the
trial's procedural outline, or protocol. If the protocol had been strictly
followed, the FDA found, Gelsinger probably would never have been allowed to
take part in the experiment.

   In response to the violations, the FDA halted the seven other gene-therapy
trials under way at Penn's institute, pending corrective measures.

   That was where things stood until last week when Penn, prompted by an outside
scientific committee that spent several months evaluating the institute, decided
that it had created a monster - a scientific program in a highly experimental
field that vested enormous power in one man.

   No matter how good Wilson's science - and he's still regarded as being at the
top of his field - the framework within which he worked simply did not allow for
the free flow of ideas, criticism and dissent that is characteristic of
academia.

   As modern medicine moves into the complex science and ethical minefields of
gene-based therapy over the next decade, both the workload and the need to
entertain competing perspectives will mount, according to Penn officials.

   Hence, the decision to let Wilson remain as director of the institute but to
limit his work to bench science and animal experiments. Any human trials of his
work are to be conducted by other investigators in their own departments.

   In addition, the institute will no longer manufacture human gene-therapy
vectors, nor will it house its own ethics group. The Center for Bioethics,
headed by Arthur Caplan, will now be a freestanding department.

   "There was considerable consolidation of authority in a single individual,"
said Penn president Judith Rodin during a teleconference to announce the changes
last week.

   "We think that Dr. Wilson was overloaded with regard to responsibility, and
one of our initial efforts has been to reduce some of the day-to-day management
and oversight responsibilities," Rodin said. "Many entities looking at this from
many different directions came to the same conclusion."

   For his part, Wilson put a good face on the changes, announcing that he would
remain at Penn and that he believed the restructuring would produce breakthrough
cures for disease.

   That may well be, but for all intents and purposes, the grand vision of an
all-encompassing gene-therapy institute is dead.

   Huntly Collins' e-mail address is hcollins@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             490 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    May 28, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SECTION: STATE, Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: ERIE LAWMAKER FACING THIRD BRAIN SURGERY IN A YEAR

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: ERIE --

BODY:


   So determined is state Rep. Italo Cappabianca to undergo experimental gene
therapy for brain cancer that he has agreed to his third surgery in 10 months so
he will qualify for a study in Pittsburgh.

   Ten days ago, doctors at UPMC-Presbyterian hospital told Cappabianca, 62, a
Democrat who is running unopposed for a 12th term, that he was ineligible for
the study because he was taking steroids to reduce brain swelling. The steroids
impair a person's immune system and do not comply with the study's protocol.

   "They talked about alternatives to gene therapy, like placing a wafer in my
brain which would release chemotherapy," said Cappabianca. "That's no good. I
want to help others, too. I'll try alternatives to gene therapy only after gene
therapy has no chance for success."

   Last week, Cappabianca flew to Boston to meet with Dr. Fred Hochberg, a
neuro-oncologist from Massachusetts General Hospital and a colleague of his
friend and consulting neurosurgeon, Dr. Marc Flitter. Hochberg determined that a
special type of surgery could reduce the brain inflammation, allowing
Cappabianca to stop taking the steroids.

   Hochberg and Flitter then persuaded UPMC doctors to allow him back into the
gene therapy trial if the surgery is successful.

   "It's not a 100 percent certainty that the surgery will be successful, but
it's a high percentage," said Flitter, who said the surgery tentatively is
scheduled for next week at St. Vincent Health Center in Erie.

   Cappabianca was diagnosed with brain cancer almost a year ago. Doctors
removed a malignant tumor from his brain in July. He underwent radiation
therapy, but a brain scan in March this year revealed another mass.

   He again underwent surgery April 11 so doctors could remove part of that
recurrent tumor in preparation for him to be a subject in the UPMC study.

   Cells from the tumor have been exposed to a virus, then combined with genes
for an experimental vaccine. Cappabianca is to be the first human to participate
in the study using the genetically engineered anti-tumor vaccine.

   "I'm confident in gene therapy," Cappabianca said. "Not only for me but for
anyone else who has cancer. This is the future treatment for cancer patients."

   Cappabianca's close friend, former state Rep. Frank Serafini of Scranton, who
recently resigned after he was sentenced for perjury, said he will travel to
Erie to be with Cappabianca during the surgery, although Serafini's wife will be
about two weeks away from delivering their first child. He also traveled to Erie
in August and Pittsburgh in April for the first two operations.

   "Italo is going to be the godfather of my child," Serafini said. "I told him
he's got to make a tremendous recovery and be there for the baptism."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000


                             491 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 27, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Keeps Strict Rules On Outside Research Work

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BOSTON, May 26

BODY:

   Harvard Medical School has decided against easing strict conflict-of-interest
rules, which would have allowed researchers to make more money through outside
work.

   In a memo to faculty members on Thursday, the dean of the medical school, Dr.
Joseph Martin, canceled a June 1 meeting to discuss the proposed policy changes.

    "I believe that the most important role academic medicine can have in
clinical research today is to try to bolster the public's faith in the veracity
and ethical underpinnings of this noble endeavor," Dr. Martin said.

   Dr. Marcia Angell, editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, said she
was delighted with the decision. "I was concerned that Harvard was going to
relax its guidelines," said Dr. Angell, who last week wrote a withering critique
of the research system, saying science was being compromised by the growing
influence of industry money.

   Harvard researchers are prohibited from devoting more than 20 percent of
their time to work outside of Harvard. They are barred from holding more than
$20,000 worth of stock in a company that finances research in their laboratory.
Restrictions also apply when they are receiving fees or royalties from a
company.

   The ethics policy, considered the toughest in the nation, covers about 8,000
faculty members in 17 affiliated institutions in the Boston area.

   A committee assembled by Dr. Martin in 1998 recommended months ago that
Harvard medical faculty members who perform company-sponsored research be
allowed to own larger amounts of stock and receive higher consultant fees.

   Researchers can have as much financial interest in a company as they want, as
long as that company does not pay for research in their lab, the school
emphasized. The business and the research must be kept separate, said Margaret
Dale, an associate dean at the medical school who administers ethics rules.

   Dr. Martin's decision came one day after the University of Pennsylvania said
it would re-evaluate its policy after the death of a volunteer in a gene therapy
experiment, which led to questions about a researcher's ties to a private
company.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2000


                             492 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 26, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: WHO'S WHAT, WHERE RECENT APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS;
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN TAPS BOARD MEMBER

BODY:

   Houghton Mifflin Co. has named Janet Hill to its board. Hill is vice
president and owner of Alexander & Associates Inc., a corporate consulting firm,
and is president of Staubach Alexander Hill, a commercial real estate consulting
firm, both based in Washington, D.C.

   From 1977 to 1981, Hill was special assistant to the secretary of the Army at
the Department of Defense. She has also conducted mathematical research for the
US Navy.   Boston-based Houghton Mifflin is a publisher of textbooks,
instructional technology, and other educational materials for elementary and
secondary schools and for colleges and universities.

   Transkaryotic taps senior VP, counsel

   Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. has named Michael J. Astrue as senior vice
president of administration and general counsel. He joins TKT from Biogen Inc.,
where he was vice president, secretary, and general counsel.

   Cambridge-based TKT is a biopharmaceutical company that is developing and
commercializing products based on three proprietary development platforms.

   Services

   Paul J. Rogan, regional property manager, Corcoran Jennison Management Co.,
Boston; Cahal Stephens, managing principal, Einhorn Yaffee Prescott Architecture
& Engineering, P.C., Boston; Todd Walthall, director of call center operations,
Cross Country Automotive Services, Boston; Krista Georges, marketing
communications manager, Torto Wheaton Research, Boston; Jim Charis, handwork
manager, Paul Mac Lellan, sortation supervisor, Janice Kiley, postage
administrator, Dickinson Direct, Braintree; Elizabeth Mac Alpine, director of
marketing, Lisa Driscoll, associate, Glenn Gilbreath, project manager, Scott
Sancomb, job captain, Gorman Richardson Architects, Hopkinton.

   Communications Advertising & Public Relations

   Jeffrey A. Belanger, online communications director, John Gitelson, account
supervisor, Judith Navoy, senior media specialist, Dennis Bella, product reviews
specialist, Tracey Collins, group manager, Peter Chandler, project manager, Tim
Polakowski, senior media specialist, Jennifer McNally, Claire Polizzi, Felicia
Spagnoli, senior account executives, Jose Sesin, senior technical editor,
Kristen Lepage, senior designer, Brodeur Worldwide, Boston.

   Finance

   John A. Denney, president and chief executive, Standard Group Holdings,
Wellesley; Beth Makaitis, vice president of marketing, Haldor Investment
Advisors, Boston; Michael L. Munson, vice president and sales officer, Mellon
Private Asset Management, Boston; Richard R. Griffiths Jr., first vice president
of Mellon Financial Corp. and product and portfolio manager of The Boston Co.,
Boston; Laura W. Dorfman, vice president and operations manager, e-Jumbo.com,
Boston; Lisa M. Greeley, vice president of commercial real estate lending,
Fergal Lynch, assistant vice president and Allston-Brighton branch manager,
Robert A. Bennett, regional branch officer, Mystic Avenue, Century Bank,
Medford.

   Send announcements to Who's What, Where, The Boston Globe, Box 2378, Boston,
MA 02107 (e-mail: who@globe.com; fax: 617-929-3183).

GRAPHIC: Hill

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             493 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 26, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: METRO/REGION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: HARVARD WON'T EASE RESEARCH STANDARDS MEDICAL SCHOOL STANDS BY
CONFLICT RULES

BYLINE: By Richard A. Knox, GLOBE STAFF

BODY:

   Saying that Harvard Medical School "is taking the high road," its dean
yesterday turned aside mounting pressure from his faculty members to liberalize
rules on how much they may own in stock or reap in consulting fees.

   Dean Joseph B. Martin's decision cut short an 18-month internal debate that
many expected would result in relaxing the medical school's conflict-of-interest
rules for researchers after a faculty meeting next week.   Some members of a
16-member Harvard committee deliberating on the issue said the dean told them he
had been sobered by his close-up view of a recent case at the University of
Pennsylvania involving the death of a young volunteer in a gene therapy
experiment. In that case, the head of Penn's gene therapy center was also a
founder and stockholder of the biotech company sponsoring the human trial.

   Martin was a member of a panel whose hard-hitting report on the Penn case was
issued Wednesday.

   Yesterday, Martin cancelled a June 1 meeting of Harvard faculty members and
called for a national debate on the proper limits on financial conflict of
interest for medical researchers.

   Meanwhile, he put in place what he called unique new rules designed to
protect medical students and postgraduate trainees from exploitation by mentors
who have financial interest in companies that sponsor research in their Harvard
laboratories.

   "I believe that the most important role academic medicine can have in
clinical research today is to try to bolster the public's faith in the veracity
and ethical underpinnings of this noble endeavor," Martin wrote in a memo to
Harvard Medical School's faculty members.

   In an interview, the dean said that maintaining Harvard's current strictures
on the medical faculty - the tightest of any major US academic research
institution - "is the right thing to do, the responsible thing to do at this
juncture."

   Harvard medical faculty members currently cannot conduct research for a
company in which they own more than $20,000 in stock or receive more than
$10,000 in fees or royalties, and rules on research involving human subjects are
even more stringent.

   A committee assembled by Martin in the fall of 1998 recommended months ago
that Harvard medical faculty be able to own somewhat larger amounts of stock, or
be paid higher consultant fees, and still do company-sponsored research in their
academic labs.

   Martin did not rule out a liberalization of research rules in the future.

   "I think it's the right decision in substance and in timing," said David Korn
of the Association of American Medical Colleges, who was to appear at next
week's Harvard faculty meeting. "I was going to argue at the June 1 meeting that
even if there were reasonable grounds to changing the rules, this was absolutely
not the time for Harvard Medical School to do so."

   Martin's unexpected action was immediately applauded by leaders of academic
medicine, who predicted it should have a bracing effect on those who argue that
conflict-of-interest policies should be strengthened to protect those who
volunteer for research and to prevent bias in reporting research results.

   "Harvard is the anchor of academic medicine," said Dr. Kenneth Shine,
president of the National Institute of Medicine, an arm of the congressionally
chartered National Academy of Sciences. "I suspect we'll see more institutions
move toward the Harvard model as opposed to away from it."

   "I'm delighted," added Dr. Marcia Angell, editor-in-chief of the New England
Journal of Medicine. "I was concerned that Harvard was going to relax its
guidelines."

   Martin alluded to a series of cases around the nation in which major research
institutions have been found to violate rules governing protection of human
subjects.

   One such case involved a gene therapy experiment with heart patients at St.
Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston. In the Penn and Boston cases, along with
more than a half-dozen others, federal authorities temporarily halted those
experiments - and sometimes suspended entire institutions' federal grants.

   Martin said such events did not determine his decision to retain Harvard's
strict rules, but did "make Harvard's position more visible." He also noted that
Harvard Medical School's 6,000 full-time faculty members were split on the
issue, a factor he called "the most troublesome thing" about relaxing
conflict-of-interest rules at this time.

   The only modification Martin made in the current rules involves new
protections for medical students and trainees whose faculty mentors have
financial interests in the outcome of experiments in the academic laboratories
they run.

   The new rule specifies that trainees must be informed of mentors' financial
interests. Mentors must obtain written approval before trainees can be assigned
to projects in which the mentor has a financial interest. There is a new appeals
process for trainees who feel wronged by situations involving mentors' conflict
of interest.

   "Really the issue here is the relative powerlessness of PhD students and
postdocs in laboratories," said Nikki Zapol, director of corporate-sponsored
research at Massachusetts General Hospital.

   Zapol said the new Harvard policy may have grown out of an episode involving
her son, David, a former postdoctoral student at a West Coast university. His
father, Harvard anesthesiology professor Warren M. Zapol, described the case in
a letter to the Harvard committee reviewing conflict-of-interest rules.

   David Zapol's mentor was a founder and stockholder of a startup biotech
company based on work in the mentor's laboratory, his parents said.

   "David discovered that results . . . from his own experiments were being
siphoned off to the company, appearing in company studies and presentations
before David had published them," Warren Zapol wrote to the Harvard committee.
The postdoctoral student feared that his mentor would direct company personnel
to "carry out work which would preempt David's PhD thesis."

   David Zapol abandoned his PhD studies after the mentor and the West Coast
university ignored David Zapol's pleas, his parents said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             494 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                      May 26, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Won't Ease Funding Restrictions; School Drops Plan to Allow
Medical Researchers to Accept More Corporate Money

BYLINE: Robert O'Harrow Jr.  , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:



   Harvard Medical School yesterday killed a controversial proposal to allow
academic researchers to accept more money for work with private industry,
yielding to mounting concerns about the impact of corporate funding on
biomedical science.

   The decision came one day after the University of Pennsylvania said it would
reevaluate its conflict-of-interest policy, following the death of a teenager in
a gene therapy experiment and questions about a star researcher's ties to a
private company.

   On Tuesday, Health and Human Services Secretary Donna E. Shalala called for a
national discussion of financial conflicts. She ordered the National Institutes
of Health to clarify the conflict rules for university researchers who receive
federal funding.

   Harvard officials said they could not justify relaxing the school's policy
now when other universities are questioning whether campus-industry
collaborations--and the huge sums those deals can entail--are undermining the
credibility of university science in the eyes of the public.

   "Someone needs to take a high road and think about the integrity of the
university," said Joseph B. Martin, dean of the faculty of medicine at Harvard.

   In a memo to his faculty yesterday, canceling a June 1 meeting to discuss the
proposed policy changes, Martin said: "I believe that the most important role
academic medicine can have in clinical research today is to try to bolster the
public's faith in the veracity and ethical underpinnings of this noble
endeavor."

   Under rules established a decade ago, Harvard medical researchers can accept
no more than $ 10,000 in consulting fees from companies with a stake in the
outcome of their research. They can hold no more than $ 20,000 worth of stock in
such companies--a small fraction of what many researchers could make in private
industry.

   The policy, widely considered the toughest in the nation, covers about 8,000
faculty members in 17 affiliated institutions in the Boston area.

   After more than a year of study, Harvard officials have recently agonized
over the prudence of moving ahead with a plan to ease those restrictions. Many
researchers believe that work with industry can result in a speedier delivery of
better medicines and medical technology. School officials also believe looser
restrictions would help the school attract and retain top researchers who want
to cash in on their discoveries.

   But as word of the proposal seeped out this spring, the school came under
intense criticism from those who believed it was sending an inappropriate
signal.

   "That's exactly the wrong thing for them to do," said Marcia Angell, the New
England Journal of Medicine editor who last week cited the proposal in a
blistering editorial about the proliferation of conflicts on campuses
everywhere. "It'll add to the cynicism that everyone is on the take, even
Harvard."

   Mildred Cho, senior scholar at the Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics,
said universities across the nation are closely watching Harvard's proposals for
signs of what path they should take. "It points to how sensitive
conflict-of-interest issues are right now," Cho said.

   Critical in the school's decision was the wave of publicity about several
research scandals that drew attention to the activities of academic scientists
who have conducted human experiments financed by companies the researchers have
a stake in.

   In his memo to Harvard faculty, Martin called for a "national dialogue"
involving top universities, government and industry to discuss such problems and
improve conflict-of-interest policies. He said the university would implement
recommendations "for strengthening the safeguards to protect medical students,
graduate students, and other trainees from potential conflicts created by their
mentor's financial interests."

   Officials did not rule out the possibility of reviving the proposal in the
future.

   David Blumenthal, a professor of medicine and health policy who has studied
the impact of industry ties to academia, said he's not surprised at Harvard's
turnabout. "It's just an incredibly awkward time," Blumenthal said.

   But he said the school should not completely jettison efforts to revise its
policy. Although there undoubtedly are risks associated with university-industry
partnerships, Blumenthal said, his studies have shown there also are potentially
far-reaching benefits for the public.

   "Harvard should do what's right," he said. "It has stayed with a policy that
is very, very conservative, while the rest of the world has become more and more
tolerant and less vigilant."


   Staff writer Rick Weiss contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             495 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                             May 25, 2000, Thursday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: The Nation in brief

BYLINE: COMPILED FROM ARKANSAS DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE PRESS SERVICES

BODY:

   University bans gene research on humans
PHILADELPHIA -- An experiment that killed an Arizona teen-ager last fall has
prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene
therapy institute and restrict its studies to animals.
Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday the university also will strengthen
supervision of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and review its
policies on conflict of interest.
The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety.
The institute came under investigation last fall when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died
four days after receiving experimental therapy there.
Institute director Dr. James M. Wilson founded a company in 1992 that had
exclusive rights to discoveries made at his institute. That financial
relationship raised additional concern about the fatal experiment and led an
external review board investigating the death to conclude that similar
relationships "may be ill-advised."
Club owner told pier shaky, company says
PHILADELPHIA -- The owner of a nightclub operating on a pier was warned that the
structure was unstable the day before it collapsed, according to the president
of a company hired to inspect cracks in the pier.
Three people were killed and several dozen injured when Pier 34 -- which
supported the new nightclub Heat -- crashed into the Delaware River on May 18.
A day earlier, "we gave them a written report stating that the foundation was
slanting toward the river and there were twisted metal supports," Commerce
Construction Corp. president Terry Zettle said Tuesday.
Police are attempting to determine whether criminal charges are warranted in the
case. Pier owner Michael Asbell, nightclub owner Eli Karetny and Karetny's
lawyer, Robert Lane, did not immediately return phone calls Wednesday.
U.S. embassy bombings trial delayed
NEW YORK -- The trial of six men accused in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings in
Africa was delayed Tuesday by four months to give defense attorneys more time to
prepare.
U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand moved the trial from Sept. 5 to Jan. 3.
One defendant, Wadih El Hage, said he was shocked by the ruling and complained
to Sand that the two years and four months that some defendants will have waited
for the trial was at the "expense of our emotions, our feelings, our families."
Sand acknowledged that the delays created hardships for the prisoners, but said
they were necessary to ensure a fair trial.
El Hage -- a U.S. citizen from Dallas -- and the other defendants are accused of
conspiring to attack Americans in the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania. The attacks killed 224 people, including 12 Americans.
Astronauts breathe easier on space station
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- Space shuttle Atlantis' astronauts said Wednesday that
they are breathing easy aboard the international space station, thanks to
improved ventilation and small fans.
The last visitors to the space station were sickened by stale air.
The space station was due for a second orbital boost Wednesday night. Late
Tuesday, the pilots used the shuttle thrusters to lift the space station 10
miles. A third and final raising is planned for today, at which time NASA hopes
to have hoisted the space station into an orbit 230 miles high.
The space station had sunk as low as 202 miles because of increased solar
activity, which causes the atmosphere to expand and spacecraft to sink.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             496 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                             May 25, 2000, Thursday

SECTION: NWANEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: The Nation in brief

BYLINE: COMPILED FROM ARKANSAS DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE PRESS SERVICES

BODY:

   *NW EDITION*
University bans gene research on humans
PHILADELPHIA -- An experiment that killed an Arizona teen-ager last fall has
prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene
therapy institute and restrict its studies to animals.
Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday the university also will strengthen
supervision of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and review its
policies on conflict of interest.
The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety.
The institute came under investigation last fall when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died
four days after receiving experimental therapy there.
Institute director Dr. James M. Wilson founded a company in 1992 that had
exclusive rights to discoveries made at his institute. That financial
relationship raised additional concern about the fatal experiment and led an
external review board investigating the death to conclude that similar
relationships "may be ill-advised."
Club owner told pier shaky, company says
PHILADELPHIA -- The owner of a nightclub operating on a pier was warned that the
structure was unstable the day before it collapsed, according to the president
of a company hired to inspect cracks in the pier.
Three people were killed and several dozen injured when Pier 34 -- which
supported the new nightclub Heat -- crashed into the Delaware River on May 18.
A day earlier, "we gave them a written report stating that the foundation was
slanting toward the river and there were twisted metal supports," Commerce
Construction Corp. president Terry Zettle said Tuesday.
Police are attempting to determine whether criminal charges are warranted in the
case.
U.S. embassy bombings trial delayed
NEW YORK -- The trial of six men accused in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings in
Africa was delayed Tuesday by four months to give defense attorneys more time to
prepare.
U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand moved the trial from Sept. 5 to Jan. 3.
One defendant, Wadih El Hage, said he was shocked by the ruling and complained
to Sand that the two years and four months that some defendants will have waited
for the trial was at the "expense of our emotions, our feelings, our families."
Sand acknowledged that the delays created hardships for the prisoners, but said
they were necessary to ensure a fair trial.
El Hage -- a U.S. citizen from Dallas -- and the other defendants are accused of
conspiring to attack Americans in the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania. The attacks killed 224 people, including 12 Americans.
India, Pakistan warned of nuclear testing
WASHINGTON -- The United States on Wednesday cautioned India and Pakistan that
further nuclear testing could escalate tensions in Southeast Asia.
State Department spokesman Philip Reeker said press reports in Pakistan that the
government was preparing another nuclear test were not considered "highly
credible."
But, Reeker said, "we did take the occasion to remind the government of Pakistan
of the serious consequences of another test for our bilateral relations."
Sunday marks the second anniversary of Pakistan's detonation of five nuclear
devices in the Chagai Hills in southwestern Pakistan. Two days later, Pakistan
tested another warhead. The tests were conducted in response to two rounds of
nuclear tests by India earlier that month.
Astronauts breathe easier on space station
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- Space shuttle Atlantis' astronauts said Wednesday that
they are breathing easy aboard the international space station, thanks to
improved ventilation and small fans.
The last visitors to the space station were sickened by stale air.
The space station was due for a second orbital boost Wednesday night. Late
Tuesday, the pilots used the shuttle thrusters to lift the space station 10
miles. A third and final raising is planned for today, at which time NASA hopes
to have hoisted the space station into an orbit 230 miles high.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             497 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2000 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               THE BALTIMORE SUN

                         May 25, 2000, Thursday ,FINAL

SECTION: BUSINESS ,1C

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Human Genome to audit its tests
 Industry concerns about clinical trials spur voluntary move; Biotechnology

BYLINE: Julie Bell

SOURCE: SUN STAFF

BODY:

   Human Genome Sciences is in the process of beginning an independent audit of
its clinical trials amid "a renewed climate of concern" nationally over the
testing of gene-based drugs in people, Chief Executive Officer William Haseltine
told shareholders yesterday at the company's annual meeting.

    Haseltine made the comments after shareholders asked about several events
this year, including HGS' hiring of a new vice president of regulatory affairs
and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's hold on clinical trials involving
VEGF-2, a gene-therapy drug manufactured by HGS.

    Haseltine did not elaborate on the audit plans of the Rockville-based and
left shortly after the shareholders meeting for a board meeting.

    Dr. David Stump, the company's senior vice president of drug development,
declined to comment further, as did company spokeswoman Kate De Santis.
Haseltine was traveling and couldn't be reached following the board meeting.

    Such an audit, however, wouldn't necessarily mean there is anything wrong
with any of HGS' seven clinical trials. Any such review by outside consultants
may simply be a preventive measure sparked by high-profile problems in
gene-based drug trials in several quarters, as well as the FDA's vigilance.

    Last fall, for example, an Arizona teenager died after receiving a
gene-based therapy overseen by a group of University of Pennsylvania
researchers. An FDA-ordered hold on those trials and hearings by the National
Institutes of Health and Congress followed.

    The Clinton administration said Tuesday that it would seek the ability to
levy fines of up to $250,000 on scientists who violate federal rules for human
research and $1 million on universities employing them.

    Yesterday, Haseltine didn't comment specifically on the Clinton
administration proposal but told shareholders, "we welcome the moves by the FDA
to tighten up clinical trials." He also said sharpened oversight would ensure
public confidence in clinical trial results.

    The experimental drug VEGF-2, a protein injected directly into the heart,
was designed to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels in patients with heart
or circulation problems. Human testing of the drug was suspended in February in
response to questions raised by the FDA, Human Genome Sciences said in a
regulatory filing.

    In April, the FDA sent a warning letter to Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, chief of
vascular medicine at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston and a principal
investigator in the trial, saying that he had violated regulations and
potentially endangered patients in the trial.

    Among other violations, the FDA said, the trials had improperly enrolled a
patient who had lung cancer - potentially leading VEGF to build blood vessels
that fed the growth of his tumor - and failed to report in a timely manner the
death of a patient who had a heart attack while enrolled in the trial.

    The trials were handled through Vascular Genetics Inc., a North
Carolina-based company in which Human Genome Sciences has a 19.9-percent stake
and warrants to purchase an additional 5.1-percent stake, according to an HGS
filing with the government. St. Elizabeth's and Isner also have stakes in
Vascular Genetics.

    Isner has since responded to the FDA's letter, and St. Elizabeth's Medical
Center spokeswoman Sonya Hagopian yesterday said that the hospital is hopeful
trials will be allowed to resume. "We're definitely eager to work with the FDA
to get the trials back on track," she said. "We answered the FDA's concerns on
the larger issues, and we felt like we put together a thorough response."

    Haseltine said Human Genome Sciences isn't confident that the trials will
resume. But, he said, "we still have great faith in this drug. It has been
active in animal models and preliminary evidence indicates it works in human."

    Wire services contributed to this article.


GRAPHIC: Photo(s) Chairman: Human Genome CEO William Haseltine talks with board
member Laura Tyson.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             498 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       May 25, 2000 Thursday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: U. of Pennsylvania will bar all human gene therapy trials

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA

BODY:

   The University of Pennsylvania, under fire as a result of the death of a
subject in a gene therapy trial last year, yesterday said it will no longer
conduct such experiments on humans.

   Instead, the school said it will focus its gene therapy work exclusively on
animals or in the lab. Several Boston area hospitals are conducting gene therapy
trials.

   University President Judith Rodin said the school has determined that its
Institute for Human Gene Therapy "can best serve the important future of gene
therapy by resolutely focusing on molecular and cellular work and animal model
experimentation."

   As a result, she said, the institute will not serve as a sponsor of clinical
trials in the future.

   Medical ethicist Michael Grodin of Boston University said other institutions
should consider following suit.

   "A moratorium would not be unreasonable," he said. "What we've learned thus
far from human gene therapy is that it doesn't work and that it can be very
harmful and cause enormous problems."

   The decision by the University of Pennsylvania comes as gene therapy trials
are being closely scrutinized by the government.

   The FDA has already shut down the trials at the University of Pennsylvania,
where 18-year-old liver patient Jesse Geisinger died in November, and at St.
Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, where two heart patients died.

   St. Elizabeth's spokeswoman Sonya Hagopian wouldn't comment yesterday when
asked if the hospital would follow the University of Pennsylvania's lead.

   However, the trials' chief investigator, Dr. Jeffrey Isner, last week began a
bid to have the trial reopened.

   Gene therapy usually uses genetically altered viruses as vectors to carry DNA
into cells. A vector called the adenovirus was implicated in the death of the
Pennsylvania patient who had a genetic liver disease.

   At St. Elizabeth's, where gene therapy was being used to treat patients with
heart disease, the FDA said that Isner violated study protocols and may have
placed patients at risk. Two patients died, though it isn't clear if it was the
gene therapy that killed them.

   "Your own review of the two coronary deaths seemed to agree that those deaths
were likely attributable to patients' underlying disease states and not to the
gene transfers themselves," Isner's letter to the FDA reads.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             499 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

                        May 25, 2000, THURSDAY, MIDWEST

SECTION: NEWS; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 543 words

BODY:


   Elian to move to D.C. Elian Gonzalez and his family and Cuban visitors are
expected to move, possibly by the end of the week, from their secluded Maryland
retreat to an estate owned by an international student exchange group in
northwest Washington, the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell of the National Council of
Churches, a supporter of the family, said Wednesday. She said the 6-year-old
shipwreck survivor has flourished since being reunited with his father. He has
learned to ride a two-wheel bike and has gone swimming. Campbell said the family
needs a change of scenery and wants a location that is more convenient to their
attorney. "What they are really anxious to do is go back home," Campbell said.
The family awaits a federal appellate court decision regarding whether Elian can
seek asylum.

   Presbyterians OK gay unions The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled
Wednesday that local congregations have the right to conduct religious
ceremonies celebrating gay unions that stop short of marriage. The decision by
the 16-member court is binding unless the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church (U.S.A.) overrides it. The case, one of three on gay issues argued last
week before the tribunal, stemmed from a same-sex ceremony performed in Dobbs
Ferry, N.Y. The Northeast regional church court ruled that ceremonies of "holy
union" for same-sex couples may be conducted if it is made clear they are not
marriages. The high court agreed, though it instructed regional church bodies to
make a clearer distinction between marriages and "blessing services."

   Penn limits gene research The University of Pennsylvania's gene therapy
institute, under fire over the death of an Arizona teenager during an experiment
last September, no longer will perform research on humans, the school said
Wednesday. The Institute for Human Gene Therapy will focus on animal experiments
and other basic research into gene therapy. The Food and Drug Administration had
halted all clinical trials at the institute, citing serious violations of
federal research rules important for patient safety.

   Pinochet loses immunity A court has stripped Gen. Augusto Pinochet of
immunity from prosecution, leaving the ailing former dictator of Chile facing a
long legal battle against accusations of human rights violations, his associates
and relatives said Wednesday. The Santiago Court of Appeals voted behind closed
doors Tuesday and did not immediately release the decision. A Pinochet
confidant, retired Gen. Luis Cortes, said Pinochet's defense team will appeal
the ruling to the Chilean Supreme Court.

   Barak warns militia Relief swept Israel after the last Israeli tank rolled
out of Lebanon at daybreak Wednesday. Just hours after the border gates swung
shut for good, hundreds of Lebanese guerrillas brandishing automatic weapons
staged victory celebrations along the barbed wire fence with Israel, taunting
Israeli onlookers on the other side. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak hopes to
keep the Shiite Muslim militia in check with threats of retaliation. Delivering
his sternest warning yet, he said Wednesday that Israeli punishment for
cross-border attacks, such as shooting ambushes, would be unprecedented in its
severity and would be felt "across Lebanon."

LOAD-DATE: June 02, 2000


                             500 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

               May 25, 2000, THURSDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; NATION/WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Security of federal sites is faulted

BODY:


   Undercover congressional investigators, testing the vulnerabilities of
federal anti-terrorism measures, used fake police badges readily available on
the Internet to easily infiltrate sensitive federal sites in Washington. Rep.
Bill McCollum (R-Fla.), head of the House Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on
crime, asked the General Accounting Office to conduct the undercover operation
earlier this month. His panel plans a hearing today examining the security
lapses that let the undercover agents successfully get into 19 buildings,
including the CIA, the FBI, the State Department and the Justice Department,
taking along large packages and even parking an uninspected rental van in the
Justice Department courtyard.  Responding to suggestions from the panel, the FBI
said Wednesday it has boosted security.

   Elian, family to move to D.C.

   Elian Gonzalez and his family and Cuban visitors are expected to move,
possibly by the end of the week, from their secluded Maryland retreat to an
estate owned by an international student exchange group in northwest Washington,
the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell of the National Council of Churches, a supporter of
the family, said Wednesday. She said the 6-year-old shipwreck survivor has
flourished since being reunited with his father, learning to ride a two-wheel
bike and swimming.

   Presbyterians OK gay unions

   The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled Wednesday that local
congregations have the right to conduct religious ceremonies celebrating gay
unions that stop short of marriage. The decision by the 16-member court is
binding unless the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (USA) overrides
it. The case, one of three on gay issues argued last week before the tribunal,
stemmed from a same-sex ceremony performed in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The northeast
regional church court ruled that ceremonies of "holy union" for same-sex couples
may be conducted if it is made clear they are not marriages. The high court
agreed, though it instructed regional church bodies to make a clearer
distinction between marriages and "blessing services."

   Penn limits gene research

   The University of Pennsylvania's gene therapy institute, under fire over the
death of an Arizona teenager in an experiment last September, no longer will
perform research on humans, the school said Wednesday. The Institute for Human
Gene Therapy will focus on animal experiments and other basic research into gene
therapy. The Food and Drug Administration had halted all clinical trials at the
institute, citing violations of federal research rules important for patient
safety.

   Ruling party warns activists

   Yugoslavian President Slobodan Milosevic's political party warned of a new
crackdown against pro-democracy activists Wednesday, a day after masked men beat
up dozens of Belgrade University students protesting a recent crackdown on
critics and independent media. With daily street protests continuing in Serbia's
largest cities, the government has accused Otpor, a popular student group that
supports pro-democracy forces, of treason and links with the Western powers that
bombed Yugoslavia for 78 days last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 02, 2000


                             501 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2000 The Courier-Journal (Louisville, KY)
                             All Rights Reserved
                      The Courier-Journal (Louisville, KY)

                  May 25, 2000 Thursday Met and metro Editions

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: EDITORIALS; Keeping research honest

BODY:

   EVERY year, U.S. taxpayers invest billions of dollars in scientific research.
Usually, it's money well spent: toward better health, better gas-mileage, safer
travel, and so on.

   Sometimes, however, mistakes are made - either because of intentional fraud
or scientific sloppiness. The consequences can be devastating. The ill might be
treated in ways that are dangerous or of no benefit. Other scientists are misled
in their own work.

   This week, Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala took an
important step to protect patients in clinical trials. She proposed that fines
of up to $1 million be imposed on scientists and the institutions where they
work if research rules are violated.

   Her plan includes conflictof-interest guidelines for doctors who have
financial stakes in their studies, and new requirements for monitoring small
clinical trials. The point, as Secretary Shalala says, is "to make sure that the
entire enterprise is rigorous and has enormous integrity.''

   Not all scientists are pleased. "It will drive people out of doing clinical
research,'' claims the dean of the medical school at University of California at
Los Angeles.

   Probably not. Most scientists already are rigorous in their standards.

   But there have been several celebrated cases of scientists violating research
rules, including a gene therapy experiment last fall that killed a teen-ager.

   Incentives for scientists and research institutions to be first must be
balanced by incentives to be accurate.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002


                             502 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                  May 25, 2000, Thursday SPORTS FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: WORLD & NATIONAL REPORT      ALASKA PILOTS HAD NO CLUE OF DOOM

BODY:
WASHINGTON - Pilots of doomed Alaska Airlines Flight 261 thought they had
control of their plane and were planning an emergency landing when the jet
suddenly plunged upside-down into the Pacific Ocean, investigators said
yesterday.

   "We have a jammed stabilizer, and we're maintaining altitude with difficulty
. . . our intention is to land at Los Angeles," one of the pilots is heard
telling air traffic controllers at 4:15 p.m. on Jan. 31 on an audiotape released
yesterday.

   Capt. Ted Thompson, 53, and First Officer William Tansky, 57, told
controllers they wanted to descend about 10,000 feet and slow down the plane.
The pilot said he wanted to "make sure I can control the jet, and I'd like to do
that out here over the bay if I may." He made his last transmission at 4:17
p.m., saying "Thank you" after he was cleared to head to Los Angeles.

   At 4:19 p.m., a pilot in a nearby private jet reported the Alaska MD-83 "has
just started to do a big, huge plunge." A second pilot in the area said the
plane "is in a nose-down, uh, position, descending quite rapidly." All 88 people
aboard the plane died. Aviation investigators still are probing the crash. MORE
NEWSRap vs. Pinochet

   SANTIAGO, Chile - A court stripped Gen. Augusto Pinochet of immunity from
prosecution yesterday, leaving the 84-year-old former dictator facing a long
court battle against charges of human rights violations. Aides to Pinochet vowed
an appeal. He is facing more than 100 lawsuits. A national report said 3,191
people died or disappeared under his regime from 1973 to 1990.

   Gene therapy ended

   PHILADELPHIA - The University of Pennsylvania halted human research at its
gene therapy lab yesterday, limiting tests to animals.

   The Ivy League school came under investigation last fall when 18-year-old
Jesse Gelsinger died four days after receiving experimental therapy. He was the
first person known to have died as a result of gene therapy.

   Nab terror suspect

   AMMAN, Jordan - A fugitive with ties to Saudi militant Osama bin Laden has
been arrested on charges of planning terrorist attacks during New Year's
celebrations. The arrest of Jamal Tahrawi on Tuesday brings to 16 the number of
suspects being held for allegedly planning attacks on U.S. and Israeli tourists
in Jordan.

   Journalists slain

   FREETOWN, Sierra Leone - Revolutionary United Front rebels ambushed and
killed an American and a Spanish journalist yesterday and killed four government
soldiers in the latest violence in Sierra Leone. Reuters correspondent Kurt
Schork, 53, and the unidentified Spanish newsman died in the ambush 54 miles
outside the capital, Freetown. Two other Reuters journalists were injured in the
ambush.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             503 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        May 25, 2000 Thursday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-06

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: University halts gene testing

BYLINE: By The Associated Press,

BODY:

   PHILADELPHIA - An experiment that killed an Arizona teenager  last fall has
prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all  human research at its gene
therapy institute and restrict its  studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday the university  will also
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other  clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   'We expect our researchers to adhere to the highest  scientific and medical
standards. From our perspective, nothing  less is acceptable,' she said.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human  studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious  violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety.

   The institute came under investigation last fall when  18-year-old Jesse
Gelsinger died four days after receiving  experimental therapy there. He was the
first person known to have  died as a result of gene therapy.

   Institute director Dr. James Wilson, one of genetic  medicine's brightest
stars, founded a company in 1992 that had  exclusive rights to discoveries made
at his institute.

   That financial relationship raised additional concern about  the fatal
experiment and led an external review board  investigating the death to conclude
that similar relationships  'may be ill-advised.'

   Wilson said he will remain as the institute's director,  hoping to develop 'a
foundation of science necessary to ensure the  ultimate success of this field.'

   'Although numerous scientific obstacles exist, gene therapy  has tremendous
potential to someday prevent or cure  life-threatening diseases.'

   The university said the school will continue to conduct  clinical trials in
gene therapy - if the FDA approves - but they  will not be done by the
institute.

   Wilson may be asked to help design such experiments, 'but he  will not
sponsor clinical trials. He will not participate,' Rodin  said.

   The changes were made in response to a review led by Dr.  William Danforth,
vice chairman of the board of trustees at  Washington University in St. Louis.

   The review questioned the need for Wilson's institute and  whether it trained
young scientists well enough to handle the  demands of testing gene therapy on
people.

   In March, the FDA said an inspection showed that Penn  researchers failed to
properly report serious reactions  experienced by patients who had the gene
therapy before Gelsinger.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             504 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                     May 25, 2000, Thursday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy clinic scaled back;
Following patient' death, changes in the works at institute

SOURCE: New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - The scientist who ran a gene therapy study that killed an
18-year-old patient at the University of Pennsylvania will no longer conduct
experiments on people, and the prestigious gene therapy institute he founded is
being scaled back, university officials announced Wednesday.

   Instead, Dr. James Wilson, who as director of the university's Institute for
Human Gene Therapy has been regarded as one of the bright young stars of his
field, will restrict his work to the study of molecules and cells, and will
experiment only on animals. Those restrictions will also apply to other
scientists working under the auspices of the institute.

   "We think that Dr. Wilson was overloaded with regard to responsibility,"
President Judith Rodin said Wednesday. Rodin described the decision as one in a
series of steps the university was taking to improve patient safety in all
experiments, and also to reduce any appearance of conflict of interest in
scientific research.

   The move will have no immediate practical effect, because the Food and Drug
Administration has already suspended all human experiments at the institute. Nor
does it necessarily mean an end to gene therapy clinical trials at the
university.

   But for Wilson, who over the past seven years had built his institute into
the nation's largest academic gene therapy program, the decision is a major
setback.

   He is facing the threat of a lawsuit by the family of the young man who died,
Jesse Gelsinger, and still must contend with an investigation by the FDA, which
uncovered a number of deficiencies in his program in the wake of Gelsinger's
death.

   At the same time, Rodin said, the university is re-examining its relationship
to the biotech company, Genovo, that Wilson founded. The company contributes
one-fifth of the $ 25 million annual budget at the gene therapy institute, and
in return has exclusive rights to develop Wilson's discoveries into commercial
products.

   In addition, the gene therapy institute will stop manufacturing the
genetically altered viruses, known as vectors, that are used to introduce genes
into cells. That work will be turned over to commercial laboratories.

   Wilson issued a terse statement Wednesday, saying he felt confident that the
steps outlined would "help position Penn as a model environment for the conduct
of all types of clinical research, especially gene therapy."

   But one leading scientist in the field, Dr. W. French Anderson, who in 1990
conducted the first gene therapy experiment, described Rodin's move as an
overreaction. "This is throwing the baby out with the bath water," Anderson
said. "It basically eliminates the gene therapy program if you can't run
trials."

   Rodin's announcement came in conjunction with the release of a report by an
independent panel of experts that evaluated the gene therapy institute at
Rodin's request. The six-member panel, led by William H. Danforth, chancellor
emeritus of Washington University in St. Louis, strongly suggested, but did not
explicitly recommend, that clinical trials at the institute be stopped.

   The experts raised serious questions about how well human gene therapy
studies were being monitored at the university. They concluded, essentially,
that either because of lack of knowledge or financial resources the institute
was not capable of complying with the federal regulations governing clinical
trials. Should clinical trials continue under the institute's auspices, the
report said, "hundreds of standard operating procedures must be developed,
recorded and put into exact operation."


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             505 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                      May 25, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 08A

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: University's human gene research halted

BYLINE:  Associated Press

BODY:

   Philadelphia -- The University of Pennsylvania's gene therapy institute,
under fire over the death of an Arizona teenager during an experiment last
September, will no longer perform research on humans, the school said Wednesday.

   The Institute for Human Gene Therapy will instead focus on animal experiments
and other basic research into gene therapy.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all clinical trials at
the institute, citing serious violations of federal research rules important for
patient safety.

   The institute came under investigation last fall when 18- year-old Jesse
Gelsinger died four days after receiving experimental therapy there. He was the
first person known to have died as a result of gene therapy.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             506 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 25, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Institute Restricted After Gene Therapy Death

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24

BODY:

   The scientist who ran a gene therapy study that killed an 18-year-old patient
at the University of Pennsylvania will no longer conduct experiments on people,
and the prestigious gene therapy institute he founded is being scaled back,
university officials announced today.

   Instead, Dr. James M. Wilson, who as director of the university's Institute
for Human Gene Therapy has been regarded as one of the bright young stars of his
field, will restrict his work to the study of molecules and cells, and will
experiment only on animals. Those restrictions will also apply to other
scientists working under the auspices of the institute.

    "We think that Dr. Wilson was overloaded with regard to responsibility," the
university's president, Dr. Judith Rodin, said at a news conference. Dr. Rodin
described the decision as one in a series of steps the university is taking to
improve patient safety in all experiments and to reduce any appearance of
conflict of interest in scientific research.

   The move will have no immediate practical effect, because the Food and Drug
Administration has already suspended all human experiments at the institute. Nor
does it necessarily end gene therapy clinical trials at the university. Doctors
in other disciplines may conduct such experiments, Dr. Rodin said, although they
will be reviewed by a special ethics panel from now on.

   But for Dr. Wilson, who over the past seven years built his institute into
the nation's largest academic gene therapy program, the decision is a major
setback.

   He is facing the threat of a lawsuit by the family of the young man who died,
Jesse Gelsinger, and still must contend with an investigation by the F.D.A.,
which uncovered a number of deficiencies in his program in the wake of Mr.
Gelsinger's death.

   At the same time, Dr. Rodin said, the university is re-examining its
relationship to the biotechnology company that Dr. Wilson founded, Genovo. The
company contributes a fifth of the $25 million annual budget at the gene therapy
institute, and in return has exclusive rights to develop Dr. Wilson's
discoveries into commercial products.

   In addition, the gene therapy institute will stop manufacturing the
genetically altered viruses that are used to introduce genes into cells, known
as vectors.

   Dr. Wilson did not grant interviews today, but issued a terse statement
saying that he felt "confident that the steps outlined today will help position
Penn as a model environment for the conduct of all types of clinical research,
especially gene therapy."

   One leading scientist in the field, Dr. W. French Anderson, who in 1990
conducted the first gene therapy experiment, described the university's move as
an overreaction. "This is throwing the baby out with the bath water," Dr.
Anderson said. "It basically eliminates the gene therapy program if you can't
run trials."

   Dr. Rodin's announcement came in conjunction with the release of a report by
an independent panel of experts that evaluated the gene therapy institute at her
request. The six-member panel, led by Dr. William H. Danforth, chancellor
emeritus of Washington University in St. Louis, strongly suggested, but did not
explicitly recommend, that clinical trials at the institute be stopped.

   The experts raised serious questions about how well human gene therapy
studies were being monitored at the university. They concluded, essentially,
that either because of lack of knowledge or financial resources the institute
was not capable of complying with the federal regulations governing clinical
trials. Should clinical trials continue under the institute's auspices, the
report said, "hundreds of standard operating procedures must be developed,
recorded and put into exact operation."

   Rather than strengthen the institute, the university chose to devote its
resources to more intensive monitoring of all the clinical trials it conducts.

   Dr. Danforth's committee also called for the university to re-evaluate its
hospital experimentation committees, which review proposals for clinical trials.
And it recommended that the university review its policies on conflict of
interest, to avoid even the appearance of conflict.

   Dr. Rodin said the university would follow the panel's recommendations. But
she said that Dr. Wilson had complied with "fairly strict and unusual
constraints" regarding conflict of interest.

   Given the committee's findings, Dr. Inder Verma, a panel member, said Dr.
Rodin had two choices: She could either give the gene therapy institute more
staff members and outside supervision, or restrict it to basic scientific
research.

   To restrict the institute, Dr. Verma said, was "a very reasonable thing." Yet
Dr. Verma said he and the other panel members came away with the strong
impression that before Mr. Gelsinger's death, Dr. Wilson and his colleagues had
been doing the best they could to follow the F.D.A.'s rules.

   Dr. Arthur Caplan, the director of the Center for Bioethics at the University
of Pennsylvania, said such scrutiny of gene therapy is likely to continue for
some time, particularly at the institute. "Until his ship stops floundering," he
said of Dr. Wilson, "it is going to be steered by somebody else for a while."


   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             507 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 25, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

BODY:


   INTERNATIONAL   A3-11

China Trade Bill Passes By Wide Margin in House
Lawmakers voted, 237 to 197, to give China permanent normal trading privileges.
A Republican majority that was larger than expected made good on President
Clinton's top remaining legislative priority; three out of four Republicans
voted in favor of the measure, while two out of three Democrats voted against
it. The vote virtually assures the end of the annual review of China's trade
status, a ritual for 20 years that Beijing considers humiliating but opponents
say maintains leverage over improving human rights.   A1

Pinochet Loses Immunity
A Chilean appeals court stripped the immunity of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, removing
an important obstacle to his possible trial. He faces charges of involvement in
the kidnapping, murder and torture of thousands during 17 years as dictator.
A1


   Israeli Admonishes Neighbors
Prime Minister Ehud Barak told Lebanon and Syria that cross-border attacks on
Israel following its recent withdrawal from Lebanon would be viewed as "an act
of war."   A8

Eritrea Announces a Retreat
Eritrea said it was withdrawing from the land it seized two years ago during its
war with Ethiopia. The Foreign Ministry said Eritrean troops would withdraw to
positions held before the war started. The retreat follows Ethiopia's punishing
12-day offensive into Eritrea.   A5

Russia Warns Afghanistan
Moscow said it might bomb targets in Afghanistan if the Taliban-led government
there sheltered and aided rebels fighting in Chechnya and other former Soviet
republics.   A7

U.N.-Cambodia Compromise
The United Nations, after months of rancorous exchanges over who should
ultimately control war crimes trials for the Khmer Rouge, has conceded to
Cambodia the right to appoint one of two prosecutors. Human rights groups
criticized the deal.   A9

World Briefing   A8

NATIONAL   A12-27

U.S. to Seek Reductions Of Arsenic in Tap Water
The Clinton administration intends to propose strict new regulations of arsenic
in tap water, reducing by 90 percent the public's maximum exposure to the
chemical, which causes cancer and is found at harmful levels in at least 1 out
of 10 of the nation's community water supplies.   A20

Gore on Social Security
Vice President Al Gore, explaining a shift in his position, said the stock
market was an attractive place for Americans to invest over the long run but not
for seeking a solution to Social Security's problems.   A27

Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York and Senator Robert G. Torricelli of
New Jersey say Mr. Gore's presidential campaign is adrift and may weaken the
Democratic drive to regain the House.   A26

A Democratic fund-raiser in Washington took in $26.5 million.   A26

Wiretapping Charges Dropped
A Maryland state prosecutor said a judge's ruling on evidence had made it
impossible to proceed with the case against Linda R. Tripp, left, who secretly
recorded conversations with Monica S. Lewinsky.   A12

Federal Building Security Test
Investigators for the General Accounting Office easily gained access to the
C.I.A., F.B.I. and other federal buildings using fake police badges and other
bogus identification.   A17

Giving to Charity Rises
Charitable giving grew faster than the economy last year, though not as fast as
the accumulation of wealth. Donations rose $16 billion, to $190.2 billion, 9.1
percent above 1998.   A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Gene Program Scaled Back
The University of Pennsylvania said that the scientist who ran a gene therapy
study that killed a patient would no longer conduct human experiments, and that
the institute he founded would be scaled back.   A20

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-15

Governor Signs Into Law 2 Environmental Initiatives
Governor Pataki signed legislation banning the use of a common gasoline
additive, M.T.B.E., that has polluted underground water supplies. He also signed
a bill to limit the amount of pollutants that drift into New York from
coal-burning power plants in the Midwest and South, causing acid rain. But the
laws potentially place New York at odds with provisions of the Federal Clean Air
Act of 1990, and energy and oil companies say they may sue.   B1

Mr. Pataki imposed conditions on his signing of a bill to require cigarettes to
meet fire-safety standards.   B5

Abortion and the Senate Race
Abortion rights leaders said they would endorse Hillary Rodham Clinton over
Representative Rick A. Lazio. Mrs. Clinton said she would make abortion rights a
key issue.   B1

Dismantling of Art Panel Urged
City Council members introduced legislation to abolish the Art Commission, a
mayoral panel that sits in judgment over artwork and architecture on city-owned
property.   B3

A Long Way From Home
There have been several Northeast sightings, including in the metropolitan area,
of a yellow-nosed albatross, a Southern Hemisphere denizen.   B1

ARTS   E1-12

EDUCATION

CIRCUITS   G1-16

SPORTS   D1-8

Devils Force a Game 7
The Devils beat the Philadelphia Flyers, 2-1, to even the Eastern Conference
finals, 3-3.   D1

Dodger Suspensions
Sixteen players and three coaches were suspended from three to eight games for
going into the stands during a fight with Chicago fans.   D1

BUSINESS DAY   C1-26

Reviewing Microsoft Plans
The federal judge in the Microsoft antitrust case seemed to suggest that the
government plan to break up Microsoft did not go far enough.   A1

Analyzing Proposed Airline Deal
James E. Goodwin, chairman and chief executive of United's parent, expressed
optimism that the acquisition of US Airways would go through, despite its
challenges. Some analysts were less sanguine, and there was skepticism on Wall
Street.   C1

Stocks Halt Slide
The Dow climbed 113.08 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,535.35; the Nasdaq rose
106.06, or 3.4 percent, to 3,270.61; and the S.& P. 500 rose 1.8 percent.   C1

Reconsidering Tax Shelters
Corporate tax shelters would be much less lucrative under revisions proposed by
the bipartisan staff of the Senate Finance Committee.   C1

Business Digest   C1

OBITUARIES   B16

HOUSE & HOME   F1-20

EDITORIAL   A28-29

Editorials: Opening China to goods and ideas; an ambitious airline merger; Mr.
Clinton's disbarment case.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge   E7
TV Listings   E11
Crossword   E6
Weather   D7
Public Lives   B2


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             508 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                   MAY 25, 2000 Thursday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: RESEARCH ON PEOPLE CURBED PENN WILL STILL DO ANIMAL GENE TRIALS

BYLINE: Michael Rubinkam, Associated Press

BODY:

   An experiment that killed an Arizona teen-ager last fall has prompted the
University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene-therapy
institute and to restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said yesterday that the university would also
strengthen oversight of gene-therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   "We expect our researchers to adhere to the highest scientific and medical
standards. From our perspective, nothing less is acceptable," Rodin said.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety.

   The institute came under investigation when 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger died
four days after receiving experimental therapy there.

   Institute director Dr. James M. Wilson, one of genetic medicine's brightest
stars, founded a company in 1992 that had exclusive rights to discoveries made
at his institute.

   That financial relationship raised additional concern about the fatal
experiment and led an external review board to conclude that similar
relationships "may be ill-advised."

   Wilson said he would remain as the institute's director, hoping to develop "a
foundation of science necessary to ensure the ultimate success of this field."

   The university said the school would continue to conduct clinical trials in
gene therapy - if the FDA approves - but they will not be done by the institute.

   Wilson may be asked to help design such experiments, "but he will not sponsor
clinical trials. He will not participate," Rodin said.

   The changes were made in response to a review led by Dr. William H. Danforth,
vice chairman of the board of trustees at Washington University in St. Louis.

   The review questioned the need for Wilson's institute and whether it trained
young scientists well enough to handle the demands of testing gene therapy on
people.

   In March, the FDA said an inspection showed that Penn researchers had failed
to properly report serious reactions experienced by patients who had the gene
therapy before Gelsinger. The agency said Gelsinger didn't even meet
requirements to be in the experiment, and charged that the university also
failed to promptly alert officials to the deaths of at least two lab monkeys in
similar experiments.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002


                             509 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      MAY 25, 2000 Thursday SFCITY EDITION

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: BIOLOGISTS WILL RECEIVE PHILA. MEDAL JAMES D. WATSON AND FRANCIS H.C.
CRICK WILL BE HONORED JULY 4 FOR THEIR PIONEERING DNA WORK.

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Biologists James D. Watson and Francis H.C. Crick will be awarded the 2000
Philadelphia Liberty Medal, the city announced yesterday.

   The scientists were commended for their discovery of the double-helix
structure of DNA almost half a century ago. Their work ushered in the revolution
in genetic science that is now in full bloom.

   Mayor Street will present the medal, which comes with a $100,000 prize, at a
ceremony at Independence Hall on July 4.

   "Philadelphia has a rich history in scientific discovery and medical
research, and we look forward to honoring two of the century's most influential
scientists," Street said in a statement.

   Earlier recipients of the prestigious award, which is administered under the
auspices of Greater Philadelphia First, include former South African leaders
Nelson Mandela and F.W. de Klerk in 1993, Czech president Vaclav Havel in 1994,
and the human-rights group Doctors Without Borders in 1991.

   This is the first time that scientists have been recognized for the award,
which is given for "demonstrated leadership and vision in the pursuit of liberty
of conscience or freedom from oppression, ignorance, or deprivation."

   "The raison d'etre of the medal was made particularly broad when the medal
was established in 1988," explained Mary Gregg, director of the medal. Watson
and Crick's work, she said, "deals with freedom from ignorance, in opening up
incredible avenues of healing, freedom from disease."

   As a result of the discovery of DNA in 1953, for which the two researchers
were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in medicine in 1962, scientists now
understand the enormous role that genes play in our health.

   Many doctors think of gene therapy - fixing diseases by tinkering with genes
- as the ultimate frontier of medicine. In the coming weeks, groups of
scientists working in both private industry and government are expected to
complete a map of almost all the genes in the human body.

   Watson, who was born in Chicago, and Crick, who is from England, were young
when they made their discovery: Watson was 25, Crick 37.

   Searching for the structure of DNA, the material which creates - and resides
within - all cells, the scientists visualized a string of chemicals organized
along a winding staircase, the now-famous double helix. They showed how such a
structure, where each rung fixed chemicals in a certain order, could grow and
multiply.

   The scientists were chosen for the award by an international selection
committee chaired by Martin Meyerson, president emeritus of the University of
Pennsylvania.

   Other members are:

   Oscar Arias, former president of Costa Rica; Joanne de Asis of the
Philippines, chair of Asia Pacific Capital Partners; William H. Gray 3d,
president of the College Fund; Peter Harf of Germany, former CEO of Joh. A.
Benckiser; Shirley Hufstedler, first U.S. secretary of education; Lord Roy
Jenkins, chancellor of Oxford University; Jeanne J. Kirkpatrick, former
ambassador to the United Nations; Robert McNamara, former president of the World
Bank; Marry Patterson McPherson, vice president of the Mellon Foundation; Andrea
L. Mitchell, chief foreign affairs correspondent for NBC; Joseph Neubauer,
chairman of Aramark Corp.; Olara A. Otunnu of Uganda, U.N. high commissioner for
children in war; Hisashi Owada, president of the Japan Institute of
International Affairs; P. Anthony Ridder, president and CEO of Knight-Ridder
Inc. (publisher of The Inquirer and the Philadelphia Daily News); Jerome
Shestack, past president of the American Bar Association; Adele Simmons, former
president of the MacArthur Foundation; Maurice F. Strong, senior advisor to the
president of the World Bank; Franklin Thomas, former president of the Ford
Foundation; Dick Thornburgh, former U.S. attorney general and Pennsylvania
governor; and Henry Wendt, former chairman of SmithKline Beecham.

   Shankar Vedantam's e-mail address is svedantam@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             510 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MAY 25, 2000 Thursday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: PENN SAYS IT WILL ALTER GENE-THERAPY INSTITUTE ALL HUMAN TRIALS WILL
BE CONDUCTED ELSEWHERE IN THE MEDICAL SCHOOL. THE FDA PRAISED THE INITIATIVES.

BYLINE: Huntly Collins, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   The University of Pennsylvania said yesterday that it would dramatically
restructure its prestigious Institute for Human Gene Therapy in the wake of
patient-safety concerns raised by the death of an Arizona teenager during a
clinical trial last fall.

   The restructuring will remove all human gene-therapy trials from the
institute and place them under the jurisdiction of individual scientific
investigators and their departments elsewhere in the medical school.

   The changes, prompted by an in-depth review of Penn's institute by an outside
scientific committee, were immediately hailed by the Food and Drug
Administration, which has put a hold on all of Penn's human gene-therapy trials
since the death of Jesse Gelsinger.

   In a brief statement, however, FDA officials gave no hint of whether the
changes would be enough to lift the freeze on gene-therapy experiments aimed at
curing various inherited disorders and cancers.

   Penn's restructuring, which is likely to prompt similar changes at other
universities, comes as the experimental field of gene therapy is beginning to
show its first successes. Preliminary evidence of cures were recently reported
in France and at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

   But as September's gene-therapy death at Penn illustrated, the fledgling
field still faces a host of safety and ethical concerns - issues that Penn,
other universities, the biotech industry, federal health agencies and Congress
are trying to address.

   Under the changes announced yesterday, James M. Wilson, the highly regarded
scientist who led the gene-therapy trial to treat an inherited liver disorder,
will remain as director of Penn's institute.

   But its scope will be greatly reduced and it will lose a fifth of its $25
million annual budget. About two dozen of the institute's 250 staff members are
expected to be reassigned within the university.

   All human gene-therapy trials elsewhere at Penn are to be closely monitored
by a special faculty review board with expertise in gene therapy.

   The institute is to continue conducting basic laboratory research, as well as
animal experiments aimed at piloting gene-therapy approaches that might someday
be used on humans.

   The lab will no longer be a federally financed center to manufacture the
modified viruses used to deliver correct genes to human cells. Instead, Penn
will purchase these viral vectors from private companies.

   In addition, Penn's Center for Bioethics, which has been housed in the
institute, will be moved out and become an independent department within the
medical school.

   The changes, in essence, open up what had been a closed system of
gene-therapy research, one that vested enormous resources and power in one man,
Wilson, with few checks and balances to ensure that dissenting voices were heard
and that patient safety was the top priority.

   Peter Traber, acting dean of the Penn medical school, said the changes would
enhance the university's pursuit of the ultimate cure - new genes to replace
those that are damaged or missing - and did not represent a retreat from a
promising but still highly experimental field.

   "We remain committed to gene therapy as a potentially important therapeutic
modality," Traber said. "The changes we are implementing will make it possible
to do that better."

   In a statement released by Penn officials, Wilson yesterday praised the
institute's evaluation, which was conducted by William H. Danforth, a physician
and chancellor emeritus of Washington University in St. Louis, and other
scientists not affiliated with Penn.

   "Having worked closely with the university administration these past several
months, I am confident that the steps outlined today will help position Penn in
the future as a model environment for the conduct and oversight of all types of
clinical research, especially gene therapy," Wilson said.

   He said he would continue at Penn and work on the basic science of gene
therapy.

   "Although numerous scientific obstacles exist, gene therapy has tremendous
potential to someday prevent or cure life-threatening diseases," Wilson said.

   Arthur Caplan, director of Penn's Center for Bioethics, also expressed
support for the changes and said he had no plans to leave the university. He
said the new national focus on ensuring patient safety in gene-therapy trials
was "good for the ethics train."

   Caplan added, "We thrive on scandal."

   In its report, the Danforth committee criticized Penn for housing Caplan's
operation within Wilson's institute, which in turn relied on Caplan for guidance
on the ethical issues raised by human trials.

   Wilson's research team originally had wanted to conduct last fall's trial on
critically ill newborns. After Caplan objected, arguing that babies cannot give
informed consent, the researchers opted instead to try out the approach on
adults who had a mild case of the liver disorder, known as ornithine
transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency.

   Gelsinger, 18, traveled from his home in Tucson, Ariz., to be a trial
volunteer. He got the experimental gene drug on Sept. 13 and died four days
later after having a massive immune-system reaction to the viral vector used to
deliver the missing gene into his cells.

   Gelsinger's death - the first fatality known to have occurred as a direct
result of gene therapy - has prompted enormous criticism of Penn and of various
federal agencies for failing to adequately monitor the safety and rights of
patients enrolled in frontier medical trials.

   FDA officials, in their statement yesterday, said they welcomed Penn's plans.

   "The university has apparently concluded that increased oversight and
monitoring of its biomedical research is called for," FDA Commissioner Jane E.
Henney said. "This action underscores the importance of research institutions
taking full responsibility for protecting and informing research subjects."

   Yesterday's announcement stems from an intensive internal review launched by
Penn President Judith Rodin shortly after Gelsinger's death.

   Another review of all human-subject research, not just that connected to gene
therapy, is to be completed this summer.

   Penn officials said yesterday that they had not decided whether to tighten
what they regard as their already tight restrictions on the extent to which
scientists can hold an equity position in companies that are financing their
research.

   The issue has been a major point of controversy because Penn has let Wilson
retain a 30 percent equity interest in his own for-profit firm, Genovo Inc., of
Sharon Hill, which has exclusive rights to license any gene-therapy technologies
developed in his lab.

   In exchange, the firm has provided a steady stream of cash, including the
promise of $36 million from a corporate partner, to finance Wilson's research.

   The Danforth committee raised questions about such arrangements, but Penn
officials said they had imposed extra layers of reporting on Wilson to ensure
that his personal financial interests would not bias his research. The
arrangement with Genovo is due to expire next month.

   Huntly Collins' e-mail address is hcollins@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             511 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 25, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: ASBESTOS IN CRAYONS INVESTIGATED

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- A U.S. consumer watchdog body said yesterday it was
investigating whether popular crayons used by generations of children worldwide
contained cancer-causing asbestos.

   The Consumer Product Safety Commission, while urging parents not to panic,
said a Seattle newspaper had conducted tests on crayons and found they contained
asbestos.

   Spokesman Ken Giles said the CPSC did not plan to advise parents to take away
crayons from their children during the investigation.

He said the agency began its investigation this week, adding he could not
provide details about which companies' products were being checked.

   Gene therapy work halted

   PHILADELPHIA -- The University of Pennsylvania's gene therapy institute,
under fire over the death of an Arizona teen-ager during an experiment in
September, will no longer perform research on humans, the school said yesterday.

   The Institute for Human Gene Therapy will instead focus on animal experiments
and other basic research into gene therapy.

The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all clinical trials at the
institute, citing serious violations of federal research rules important for
patient safety.

   Swallow and say cheese!

   Scientists have developed a medical exam in which the patient swallows a tiny
camera that yields a living-color tour of the digestive tract as it passes
painlessly through the body.

   The inventors of the camera-in-a-capsule hope it will someday replace
colonoscopies and other uncomfortable and even painful diagnostic exams in which
a flexible fiber-optic tube is inserted in the rectum or down the throat.

   Human trials are expected to begin in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2000


                             512 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                       May 25, 2000 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: NATION

BODY:

      PHILADELPHIA
   Lab to stop research on humans


      An experiment that killed an Arizona teenager last fall has prompted the
University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene therapy
institute and restrict its studies to animals. Penn President Judith Rodin
said yesterday the university also will strengthen oversight of gene therapy
research and other clinical trials and review its policies on conflict of
interest. The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human
studies at the Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of
federal research rules regarding patient safety. The institute came under
investigation last fall when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died four days after
receiving experimental therapy there. He was the first person known to have
died as a result of gene therapy.

   WASHINGTON
   Senate confirms 16 judicial nominees
   The Senate confirmed 16 of President Clinton's judicial nominees to
lifetime terms on the federal bench after voting yesterday to place on the
Federal Election Commission a conservative professor who believes there should
be no limits on political donations. Bradley A. Smith, who teaches law at
Capital University in Columbus, was confirmed 64-35. The judges and 47 other
Clinton nominations were approved either on voice vote or by wide margins.

   PRINCETON, N.J.
   Colleges expect minority gain
   The number of young adults academically qualified to go to college is
expected to rise by 19 percent - 2.6 million people - over two decades, and
minority students will account for most of the increase, according to a study
released yesterday. The Educational Testing Service report projects that
blacks, Hispanics and Asian/Pacific Islanders will make up 80 percent of the
increase among all 18- to 24-year-olds academically qualified for college. The
study is based on school achievement tests and national and state population
figures.

   WASHINGTON
   King, Sharpton to re-create march
   Martin Luther King III says he and the Rev. Al Sharpton will lead a march
on Washington on Aug. 26 to "redeem" his father's dream of racial equality
from the damage he said has been inflicted by police brutality. The march will
be held on the National Mall on a Saturday, two days short of the 37th
anniversary of the elder King's "I have a dream" speech.

   Presbyterians OK same-sex unions
   The highest court of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) ruled yesterday that
the denomination's constitution does not prevent ministers from blessing
same-sex unions so long as it is clear that the ceremony is in no way
comparable to a traditional marriage between a man and a woman. The court also
ruled that the denomination's laws do not bar openly gay men and lesbians from
seeking the ministry. Once a candidate for the ministry is to be ordained,
however, Presbyterian church law requires "fidelity in marriage or chastity in
singleness."

   NEW YORK
   School investigates calculator snafu
   The New York City Board of Education will analyze hundreds of test scores
from students at a middle school to decide if they are eligible for make-ups
because their calculators failed, officials said yesterday. School officials
at Jackson Heights Middle School still don't know why 450 of 750 calculators
given out during a grueling two-day statewide math test last week did not
work, touching off panic and confusion. Scores on the high-stakes test are
among the measures used to determine which students must attend summer school.

   GOLDEN, COLO.
   Columbine tapes ordered released
   A judge has ordered that tapes of police radio conversations in the
Columbine High School shootings in April 1999 be released. Jefferson County
District Judge Brooke Jackson said he reviewed eight 90-minute tapes and
concluded "there is no public-interest reason to deny disclosure of this
information."

COLUMN: NATION

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             513 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             May 25, 2000, Thursday

SECTION: NEWS;Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 68 words

HEADLINE: Death prompts Penn to halt gene therapy

BYLINE: Associated Press

BODY:
 PHILADELPHIA -- An experiment that killed an Arizona teen-ager last fall has
prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene
therapy institute and restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said yesterday the university also will
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000


                             514 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                         May 25, 2000, Thursday , METRO

SECTION: A SECTION; Medicine ; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Gene institute halts human experiments

BYLINE: Michael Rubinkam


BODY: PHILADELPHIA - An experiment that killed an Arizona teen last fall has
prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene
therapy institute and restrict its studies to animals.

    Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday that the university will
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies about conflict of interest.

    "We expect our researchers to adhere to the highest scientific and medical
standards. From our perspective, nothing less is acceptable," she said.

    The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety.

    The institute came under investigation last fall when 18-year-old Jesse
Gelsinger died four days after receiving experimental therapy there. He was the
first person known to have died as a result of gene therapy.

    Institute director Dr. James Wilson, one of genetic medicine's brightest
stars, founded a company in 1992 that had exclusive rights to discoveries made
at his institute.

    That financial relationship raised added concern about the fatal experiment
and led an external review board investigating the death to conclude that
similar relationships "may be ill-advised."

    Wilson said he will remain as the institute's director, hoping to develop "a
foundation of science necessary to ensure the ultimate success of this field.
Although numerous scientific obstacles exist, gene therapy has tremendous
potential to someday prevent or cure life-threatening diseases."

    The university said the school will continue to conduct clinical trials in
gene therapy - if the FDA approves - but they won't be done by the institute.

    Wilson may be asked to help design such experiments, "but he will not
sponsor clinical trials. He will not participate," Rodin said.

    The changes were made in response to a review led by Dr. William Danforth,
vice chairman of the board of trustees at Washington University in St. Louis.

    The review questioned the need for Wilson's institute and whether it trained
young scientists well enough to handle the demands of testing gene therapy on
people.

    "Are the risks well enough understood to promote widespread testing in
inexperienced hands?" the panel's report asked.

    In March, the FDA said an inspection showed that Penn researchers failed to
properly report serious reactions experienced by patients who had the gene
therapy before Gelsinger.

    The agency said Gelsinger didn't even meet requirements to be in the
experiment

    On the Net: Food and Drug Administration: http://www.fda.gov

    Institute for Human Gene Therapy: http://www.med.upenn.edu/(tilde)ihgt/


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             515 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 25, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Security easily defeated in D.C. airports

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Investigators masquerading as armed law enforcement officers carried
unsearched briefcases past security guards at airports in Washington and Orlando
and secure government buildings, including the Pentagon, the FBI and the State
Department. They penetrated into or near Cabinet secretaries' suites in almost
every attempt, according to new findings by the General Accounting Office.

   Startling security weaknesses were discovered at two airports and all 19 of
the federal agencies visited by GAO investigators, who used counterfeit
identification and phony law enforcement badges they obtained on the Internet.

   The results of the investigation were shared Tuesday morning with the
agencies at a closed-door briefing on Capitol Hill. The FBI and some other
agencies immediately tightened security.

   At the two airports tested - Reagan National and Orlando International - the
fake law enforcement officers were not searched and were given permits to carry
weapons aboard airplanes.

   CARTOONIST HONORED: As the comic strip Beetle Bailey celebrates its 50th
anniversary, the Army on Wednesday honored the creator of Camp Swampy with its
highest civilian award, the Distinguished Civilian Service award.

   "Boy, how times have changed," said cartoonist Mort Walker, accepting
accolades at a Pentagon ceremony. "I was persona non grata around here for many,
many years."

   Democratic gala sets

   fundraising record

   WASHINGTON - Wednesday night at the MCI Center, Democrats conducted the
biggest political fundraiser ever, raising $ 26.5-million in three hours.

   Among the 13,645 at the tribute to President Clinton were Hillary Rodham
Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and Tipper Gore, and entertainers such as Robin
Williams, Stevie Wonder, LeAnn Rimes, Lenny Kravitz and Darius Rucker.

   In health . . .

   CHILDREN AND ANTIBIOTICS: Children suspected of being infected with a nasty
form of the E. coli food poisoning bug should not be treated with antibiotics
because the drugs may trigger dangerous complications, a study warns.

   A variety of the usually harmless E. coli bacteria called O157:H7 causes an
estimated 73,000 cases of food poisoning in the United States annually.

   A rare complication in children, usually under age 5, is hemolytic uremic
syndrome, which results in destruction of red blood cells and kidney failure. A
study by doctors from Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle
found a link with antibiotic use, which had already been suspected. Their study
is scheduled to be published June 29 in the New England Journal of Medicine,
which released it Wednesday.

   HUMAN STUDIES STOPPED: An experiment that killed an Arizona teenager last
fall has prompted the University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at
its gene therapy institute and restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday that the university will
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   Elsewhere . . .

   CIVIL RIGHTS MARCH PLANNED: Martin Luther King III says he and the Rev. Al
Sharpton will lead a march on Washington on Aug. 26 to "redeem" his father's
dream of racial equality from the damage he said has been inflicted by police
brutality.

   GAY CEREMONIES OKAYED: The highest court in the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.)
announced Wednesday that it has upheld the right of ministers to perform
blessing ceremonies for same-sex couples, as long as it is clear the ritual is
not sanctioning marriage.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             516 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 25, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A16

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

BODY:


EAST

PHILADELPHIA

Penn halts all human gene therapy research

   An experiment in which an Arizona teen-ager died last fall has prompted the
University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene therapy
institute and restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday that the university would also
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety. The institute came under investigation last fall
when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died after receiving experimental therapy there. He
was the first person known to have died after receiving gene therapy.

WASHINGTON

FBI boosts security at headquarters, elsewhere

   Responding to suggestions from a House panel, the FBI has boosted security at
its headquarters and other locations. The steps were "based on recommendations
received yesterday from the crime subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee... No specific threat gives rise to this announcement," the bureau
said Wednesday.

   Henceforth at FBI headquarters, police and law enforcement officers from
outside the FBI will have to surrender their weapons before entering unless they
have been given permanent passes. Also the guard post on the street will verify
visitors' picture identification and which FBI employee they are visiting,
rather than doing that inside the J. Edgar Hoover Building. Visitors to the
popular FBI Tour will continue to pass through a metal detector, have their
packages searched and be escorted inside the building.

WASHINGTON

Bill includes $ 15 billion in farm assistance

   Congressional negotiators agreed Wednesday on a $ 15 billion package of farm
assistance that would compensate growers for a third straight year of low
commodity prices and would cut sharply the cost of buying crop insurance.

   The election-year aid includes $ 5.5 billion in direct payments that would
reach farmers by Sept. 30.

   About $ 8.2 billion would go toward reducing premiums on federally subsidized
crop insurance over the next five years, and the legislation makes a series of
changes in the insurance program designed to get more farmers to buy the
coverage. The legislation still needs final approval in the House and Senate,
which could come as soon as today.

SOUTH

LOUISVILLE, Ky.

Presbyterian court OKs blessing of gay unions

   The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled Wednesday that local
congregations have the right to conduct religious ceremonies celebrating gay
unions that stop short of marriage.

   The decision by the 16-member court is binding unless the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) overrides it.

   The case, argued last week before the tribunal, stemmed from a same-sex
ceremony performed in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The Northeast regional church court
ruled that ceremonies of "holy union" for same-sex couples may be conducted if
it is made clear they are not marriages.

MIDWEST

DECATUR, Ill.

Jesse Jackson says he will attend school's graduation

   The Rev. Jesse Jackson, under court order to stay away from the Decatur
schools, says he will attend graduation ceremonies Friday despite threats by the
school board to have him arrested.

   Jackson last visited the central Illinois city in the fall to protest the
expulsions of six black students involved in a brawl at a football game. He said
Wednesday a student's family invited him to graduation. Two of the expelled
students, who were allowed to attend alternative schools, are graduating.

   Decatur's school board wrote Jackson's Rainbow/PUSH Coalition last week to
say Jackson and others could be in contempt of court if they attend commencement
exercises.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             517 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 25, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A16

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

BODY:


EAST

PHILADELPHIA

Penn halts all human gene therapy research

   An experiment in which an Arizona teen-ager died last fall has prompted the
University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene therapy
institute and restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday that the university would also
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety. The institute came under investigation last fall
when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died after receiving experimental therapy there. He
was the first person known to have died after receiving gene therapy.

WASHINGTON

Bill includes $ 15 billion in farm assistance

   Congressional negotiators agreed Wednesday on a $ 15 billion package of farm
assistance that would compensate growers for a third straight year of low
commodity prices and would cut sharply the cost of buying crop insurance.

   The election-year aid includes $ 5.5 billion in direct payments that would
reach farmers by Sept. 30.

   About $ 8.2 billion would go toward reducing premiums on federally subsidized
crop insurance over the next five years, and the legislation makes a series of
changes in the insurance program designed to get more farmers to buy coverage.

SOUTH

LOUISVILLE, Ky.

Presbyterian court OKs blessing of gay unions

   The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled Wednesday that local
congregations have the right to conduct religious ceremonies celebrating gay
unions that stop short of marriage.

   The decision by the 16-member court is binding unless the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) overrides it.

   The case, argued last week before the tribunal, stemmed from a same-sex
ceremony performed in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The Northeast regional church court
ruled that ceremonies of "holy union" for same-sex couples may be conducted if
it is made clear they are not marriages.

MIDWEST

CHICAGO

Senators urge curbing of violent video game sales

   Several U.S. senators and Illinois Attorney General Jim Ryan have urged major
retail chains to stop selling violent video games to children. Ryan met in
Chicago with representatives from Target, Best Buy, Kmart and Wal-Mart to
discuss ways to prevent children from buying such games that carry a rating of
"M" or "mature."

   The meeting took place on the day nine senators sent a letter to top
executives at Target, Best Buy, Circuit City and Kmart, encouraging them to pull
the games off their shelves or prevent their sale to anyone younger than 17.
Signing that letter were Sens. John Ashcroft, R-Mo.; Dick Durbin, D-Ill.; Tim
Hutchinson, R-Ark.; Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn.; Jesse Helms, R-N.C.; Herb Kohl,
D-Wis.; Sam Brownback, R-Kan.; Jeff Sessions, R-Ala.; and Kent Conrad, D-N.D.

   Officials for many of the retailers involved in Wednesday's meeting noted
that the games are legal and the ratings are merely a tool to help parents make
the best decisions for their children.

DECATUR, Ill.

Jesse Jackson says he will attend school's graduation

   The Rev. Jesse Jackson, under court order to stay away from the Decatur
schools, says he will attend graduation ceremonies Friday despite threats by the
school board to have him arrested.

   Jackson last visited the central Illinois city in the fall to protest the
expulsions of six black students involved in a brawl at a football game. He said
Wednesday a student's family invited him to graduation. Two of the expelled
students, who were allowed to attend alternative schools, are graduating.

   Decatur's school board wrote Jackson's Rainbow/PUSH Coalition last week to
say Jackson and others could be in contempt of court if they attend.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             518 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 25, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A16

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

BODY:


EAST

PHILADELPHIA

Penn halts all human gene therapy research

   An experiment in which an Arizona teen-ager died last fall has prompted the
University of Pennsylvania to halt all human research at its gene therapy
institute and restrict its studies to animals.

   Penn President Judith Rodin said Wednesday that the university would also
strengthen oversight of gene therapy research and other clinical trials and
review its policies on conflict of interest.

   The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all human studies at the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy, citing serious violations of federal research
rules regarding patient safety. The institute came under investigation last fall
when Jesse Gelsinger, 18, died after receiving experimental therapy there. He
was the first person known to have died after receiving gene therapy.

WASHINGTON

FBI boosts security at headquarters, elsewhere

   Responding to suggestions from a House panel, the FBI has boosted security at
its headquarters and other locations. The steps were "based on recommendations
received yesterday from the crime subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee... No specific threat gives rise to this announcement," the bureau
said Wednesday.

   Henceforth at FBI headquarters, police and law enforcement officers from
outside the FBI will have to surrender their weapons before entering unless they
have been given permanent passes. Also the guard post on the street will verify
visitors' picture identification and which FBI employee they are visiting,
rather than doing that inside the J. Edgar Hoover Building. Visitors to the
popular FBI Tour will continue to pass through a metal detector, have their
packages searched and be escorted inside the building.

WASHINGTON

Bill includes $ 15 billion in farm assistance

   Congressional negotiators agreed Wednesday on a $ 15 billion package of farm
assistance that would compensate growers for a third straight year of low
commodity prices and would cut sharply the cost of buying crop insurance.

   The election-year aid includes $ 5.5 billion in direct payments that would
reach farmers by Sept. 30.

   About $ 8.2 billion would go toward reducing premiums on federally subsidized
crop insurance over the next five years, and the legislation makes a series of
changes in the insurance program designed to get more farmers to buy the
coverage. The legislation still needs final approval in the House and Senate,
which could come as soon as today.

SOUTH

LOUISVILLE, Ky.

Presbyterian court OKs blessing of gay unions

   The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled Wednesday that local
congregations have the right to conduct religious ceremonies celebrating gay
unions that stop short of marriage.

   The decision by the 16-member court is binding unless the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) overrides it.

   The case, argued last week before the tribunal, stemmed from a same-sex
ceremony performed in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The Northeast regional church court
ruled that ceremonies of "holy union" for same-sex couples may be conducted if
it is made clear they are not marriages.

WEST

SACRAMENTO, Calif.

Davis vetoes bill expanding state's medical leave act

   Gov. Gray Davis vetoed a bill that would have expanded the state's family
care and medical leave act to let workers take time off to care for ill
siblings, adult children, grandparents or domestic partners.

   The California Family Rights Act already requires employers to let workers
who meet certain qualifications take up to 12 weeks unpaid leave annually to
care for a parent, minor child or spouse with a serious health condition.

   The vetoed bill would have expanded the act to include caring for adult
children, grandparents, domestic partners or others who depend on the employee
for support. Davis said the changes would have gone too far.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             519 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2000 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                             May 25, 2000 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Institute ends human gene therapy research

BYLINE: Lisa Richwine, REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A University of Pennsylvania research institute will no longer conduct tests
on people after an 18- year-old died last year in one of its gene therapy
experiments, the university said yesterday.

    The Institute for Human Gene Therapy, led by James Wilson, now will focus on
molecular, cellular and animal studies, officials said. Tests on humans will
take place elsewhere at the university under closer monitoring, they added.

    Those steps were among several the university, located in Philadelphia, said
it was taking after releasing an independent evaluation of its gene therapy
programs.

    "Our clinical research programs at the University of Pennsylvania must meet
the highest possible standards for academic excellence and patient safety and
care," said university President Judith Rodin.

   In a brief statement, Wilson said the gene therapy institute's goal would be
to "develop a foundation of science necessary to ensure the ultimate success of
this field."

    The Food and Drug Administration shut down all of the university's gene
therapy trials in January after citing numerous violations of federal rules
designed to protect patient safety. The FDA probe is ongoing.

    The investigation came after the September death of Jesse Gelsinger, who
suffered a massive immune reaction after receiving a gene therapy treatment for
a rare liver disorder.

    The FDA found that Penn researchers, among other things, did not inform
proper authorities of adverse events during Gelsinger's trial. Gelsinger's
father has said scientists misled him and his son about the experiment's effects
and risks.

    The university promised tighter controls on all human experiments, more
training for monitors and a review of conflict of interest and ethics policies,
Rodin said.

    Those actions were in response to a report by an independent panel of
scientists led by William Danforth. The committee urged a thorough review of
clinical trial monitoring and stepped up efforts to make sure patients are fully
aware of benefits and risks before enrolling in trials.

    Danforth said he believed Penn researchers were committed to correcting any
problems and already were working to do so.

    Researchers have said they cannot explain why Gelsinger died. Danforth said
his panel found no evidence that the lapses cited by the FDA led to Gelsinger's
death.

    "Did those things criticized by the FDA lead to the death of Jesse
Gelsinger? I think there is no evidence for that," Danforth, a member of the
board of trustees of Washington University in St. Louis, told reporters.

    Gene therapy is a relatively new field of medicine in which scientists try
to use healthy genes to override faulty ones.

    Probes conducted after Gelsinger died found many gene therapy researchers
were not following basic federal rules on how to conduct clinical trials.

    On Tuesday, U.S. officials announced they would require closer scrutiny of
human tests and would ask Congress for power to levy civil fines against
researchers and universities that violated the rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007


                             520 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         May 25, 2000 Thursday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: PENN STATE TO REVAMP GENE THERAPY PROCEDURES

BYLINE: By Huntly Collins Knight Ridder Newspapers

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

BODY:

   The University of Pennsylvania said Tuesday it will dramatically restructure
its prestigious Institute for Human Gene Therapy in the wake of patient-safety
concerns raised by the death of an Arizona teen-ager during a clinical trial
last fall.

   The changes, prompted by an in-depth review of Penn's institute by an outside
scientific committee, were immediately hailed by the Food and Drug
Administration, which has put a hold on all of Penn's human gene therapy trials
since the death of Jesse Gelsinger.

   In a brief statement, however, FDA officials gave no hint of whether the
changes will be enough to lift the freeze on gene-therapy experiments aimed at
curing various inherited disorders and cancers.

   Penn's restructuring, which is likely to prompt similar changes at other
universities, comes as the experimental field of gene therapy is beginning to
show its first successes. Preliminary evidence of cures was recently reported in
France and at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

   But as September's gene-therapy death at Penn illustrated, the fledgling
field faces a numberof safety and ethical concerns -- issues that Penn, other
universities, federal health agencies and Congress are trying to address.

   Gelsinger, 18, traveled from his home in Tucson, Ariz., to be a trial
volunteer. He got the experimental gene drug on Sept. 13 and died four days
later after having a massive immune-system reaction to the viral vector used to
deliver the OTC gene into his cells.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             521 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post



                     May 25, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Today in Congress

BODY:


   SENATE

   Meets at 9:30 a.m.

   Committees:

   Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs--10 a.m. Financial institutions &
regulatory relief subc. Antitrust violations in credit card industry. 538
Dirksen Office Bldg.

   Commerce, Science and Transportation--9:30 a.m. Internet privacy issues. 253
Russell Office Bldg.

   Energy and Natural Resources--9:30 a.m. Domestic demand for natural gas. 366
DOB.

   Energy and Natural Resources--2:30 p.m. National Parks, historic preservation
& recreation subc. Potential ban of snowmobiles in Yellowstone & Grand Tetons
national parks. 366 DOB.

   Governmental Affairs--10 a.m. International security, proliferation & federal
services subc. U.S. Postal Service revenue-sharing arrangements. 342 DOB.

   Health, Education, Labor and Pensions--9:30 a.m. Public health & safety subc.
Initiatives by FDA & NIH to improve patient safety in gene therapy trials. 430
DOB.

   Judiciary--10 a.m. Enhancing protections of Internet & critical
infrastructure of U.S. & other purposes. 226 DOB.

   Judiciary--2 p.m. Pending judicial nomination. 226 DOB.

   HOUSE

   Meets at 10 a.m.

   Committees:

   Appropriations--9:30 a.m. Mark up fiscal 2001 defense & interior
appropriations. 2359 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

   Armed Services--10 a.m. Military research & development subc. Integrated
ocean observation system. 1334 Longworth House Office Bldg.

   Banking and Financial Services--10:30 a.m. Domestic & international monetary
policy subc. Efforts of Nigeria's new government to stabilize the country's
economy. 2128 RHOB.

   Budget--10 a.m. Housing & Infrastructure Task Force "Lack of Income
Verification in HUD Assisted Housing: The Need to Eliminate Overpayments." 210
Cannon House Office Bldg.

   Commerce--10 a.m. Oversight & investigations subc. "Enforcing the Laws on
Internet Pharmaceutical Sales: Where are the Feds?" 2322 RHOB.

   Commerce--11 a.m. Telecommunications, trade & consumer protection subc.
Deployment of broadband technologies. 2123 RHOB.

   Education and the Workforce--9:30 a.m. Mark up bill to require U.S.
comptroller general to conduct a comprehensive fraud audit of Department of
Education & Higher Education Act. 2175 RHOB.

   Judiciary--10 a.m. Courts & intellectual property subc. U.S. Copyright Office
& sound recordings as work for hire. 2141 RHOB.

   Judiciary--2 p.m. Crime subc. "Breaches of Security at Federal Agencies and
Airports." 2141 RHOB.

   Judiciary--9:30 a.m. Immigration & claims subc. Regulations implementing the
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998. 2226 RHOB.

   Resources--10 a.m. Fisheries conservation, wildlife & oceans subc. & Armed
Services Military research & development subc. Federal Ocean Observation Plan.
1334 LHOB.

   Transportation and Infrastructure--1:45 p.m. Oversight, investigations &
emergency management subc. Mark up Preparedness Against Terrorism Act. 2167
RHOB.

   Small Business--10 a.m. Mark up New Markets Venture Capital Program Act &
pending business matters. 311 CHOB.

   Ways and Means--10 a.m. Mark up of Death Tax Elimination Act. 1100 LHOB.



LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             522 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     May 25, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Penn Ends Gene Trials On Humans

BYLINE: Deborah Nelson; Rick Weiss , Washington Post Staff Writers

BODY:


   The University of Pennsylvania announced yesterday that its gene therapy
institute, which has been an international leader in the cutting-edge field of
medical research, will no longer experiment on people.

   Responding to concerns raised by the death of a teenage volunteer last
September and subsequent revelations of numerous lapses in patient protections,
the university will confine research at the Institute for Human Gene Therapy
--and by its high-profile director, James Wilson--to animal and laboratory
experiments, officials said.

   "He [Wilson] will not sponsor clinical trials. He will not participate," said
Penn President Judith Rodin in making the surprise announcement.

   Any future gene therapy experiments on people at the university will be
carried out by researchers outside the institute and only after vigorous
scientific and ethical review, she said.

   Rodin's announcement immediately followed release of a report by an
independent panel, commissioned by the university, that questioned the wisdom of
vesting so much responsibility and power over gene research in a single center
and individual and raised many questions about the way the university has run
the institute.

   Wilson responded with an upbeat statement that said he would "refocus our
efforts in the preclinical area--with the goal of developing a foundation of
science necessary to ensure the ultimate success of this field. Although
numerous scientific obstacles exist, gene therapy has tremendous potential to
someday prevent or cure life-threatening diseases."

   The university's action came after the Food and Drug Administration found
that Wilson had not properly reported the deaths of experimental animals or
serious side effects suffered by volunteers who preceded Jesse Gelsinger, the
Tucson teenager who died Sept. 17 after undergoing an experimental therapy for a
rare metabolic disorder. Gelsinger suffered a fatal reaction to the genetic
material he received. The agency also found that the institute enrolled
Gelsinger and others even though they didn't meet some of the minimal health
standards required for participation.

   As a result, the agency in January suspended seven active or pending gene
therapy experiments at Penn, which has played a major role in moving gene
therapy research out of the lab and into people.

   The decision to diminish the size and status of the institute is sure to
reverberate through the controversial, 10-year-old field, which in less than a
year has experienced both the first death caused by the therapy--Gelsinger--and
its first tentative success--research in France that appears to have cured at
least two children with an inherited immune system disorder.

   In addition to Penn's problems, the field--which tries to cure disease by
giving people new genes--has been rocked by revelations that researchers
elsewhere weren't properly reporting the deaths and illnesses of hundreds of
volunteers to the National Institutes of Health as required by federal
regulations. (Unlike the Gelsinger case, the deaths were all deemed unrelated to
treatment by the researchers involved but still had to be reported under federal
rules.)

   Most recently, the FDA shut down four gene experiments by a prominent
researcher at Tufts University and cited him for numerous safety lapses,
including the failure to tell his own institution about the death of a volunteer
and the inclusion of patients who did not qualify and may have been harmed by
the experimental treatment.

   Those developments have prompted government and university officials to
search for ways to improve oversight, accountability and patient safety in gene
therapy experiments. On Tuesday, the Department of Health and Human Services
recommended that legislators give the FDA authority to impose fines on
researchers and universities for patient safety violations.

   Rodin announced several initiatives to bolster patient safety that, while
responding to general concerns raised by the independent panel and an internal
review, also appear to address specific aspects of the fatal experiment.

   For example, Rodin said, she would follow a recommendation that the
university review its policies on conflicts of interest created by researchers
and the university having financial interests in companies trying to
commercialize research.

   The university, Wilson and a company he founded, Genovo Inc., all had
financial stakes in research carried out at the institute--including the
experiment in which Gelsinger died. Without mentioning their business
relationship specifically, the report said equity positions by investigators or
the university are "ill advised."

   Rodin said the university's contract with Genovo, which gives Genovo rights
to gene research discoveries at the institute in exchange for substantial
financial support, expires in June.

   She said negotiations are underway, and she does not know yet whether it will
be renewed and under what terms.

   Another change highlighted by Rodin would move Penn's Center for Bioethics
out of the institute and make it a separate department. The report had
questioned whether bioethicists should report to the very person who's
overseeing the research they're judging.

   The report also expressed concern that ethical decisions were made informally
on the basis of conversations with bioethicists rather than through the
university's formal review process by the review board that has primary legal
responsibility for protecting research volunteers. In the case of the fatal
experiment, Wilson made the controversial decision to give a risky gene
treatment for a rare liver disorder to relatively healthy adults with a mild
form of the disease, based on conversations with Arthur Caplan, the bioethics
center director.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             523 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Home Edition

SECTION: News; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Agency pursues fines for wayward research;
 FDA: Patient safety lags in clinical trials

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

BODY:
Washington --- Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $ 250,000
for scientists who violate medical research rules --- and fines of $ 1 million
for rule-breaking universities or hospitals --- amid criticism that the
government hasn't done enough to protect thousands of patients involved in
clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health Secretary
Donna Shalala said Tuesday, stressing that the government will hold responsible
not just the scientist at fault but the entire research institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while --- Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps Tuesday that will start immediately:
better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day to day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teenager last fall.

   To check for further problems, the FDA revealed Tuesday that it had begun
unprecedented in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. HHS's inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that there
is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in clinical
trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too dangerous
are missed. The local medical boards, called "institutional review boards" or
IRBs, primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained, the inspector
general said.

   FDA inspectors in 1997 said they observed 33 violations of research rules in
clinical trials conducted in Augusta by two Medical College of Georgia
professors. The violations included failing to report serious side effects,
ordering unqualified employees to perform medical tasks and failing to properly
obtain patients' consent.

   The Augusta trials had been monitored by an institutional review board in
Washington state that said it found no evidence of patient safety problems.

   The professors, Richard Borison and Bruce Diamond, pleaded guilty in 1998 to
stealing millions of dollars in research funds from the hospital and were
sentenced to prison.

   Nationally, several scientists caught violating research rules have claimed
they were confused about government requirements.

   But the nation's top regulators signaled impatience with that claim.

   "I don't accept the confusion defense," Shalala said bluntly.

   "These rules have been long-standing," added FDA Commissioner Jane Henney. "
They are pretty fundamental."

   Shalala said the biggest change is that the government will hold accountable
not just scientists who violate the rules, but entire research institutions and
IRBs.

   Although the FDA already fines certain medical companies for various
violations, Congress would have to approve this new type of fine. It's not clear
that lawmakers would have time to pass such a bill this year, or that the
Republican-led Congress, long unfriendly to the FDA, would even approve.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             524 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: FINES PROPOSED FOR VIOLATIONS IN MEDICAL RESEARCH

BYLINE: By Alice Dembner and Richard A. Knox, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Researchers who violate rules designed to ensure the safety of participants
in medical experiments could be fined up to $250,000, and their institutions up
to $1 million, under legislation proposed yesterday by federal health officials.

   If approved by Congress, the fines would provide the Food and Drug
Administration with a more surgical enforcement tool than current sanctions.
Facing a public reckoning tomorrow at a congressional hearing on human research,
the secretary of health and human services, Donna Shalala, also announced
tougher rules for informed consent that include the requirement that researchers
disclose any financial stake in their experiments to potential participants
before they sign up.

   "Today's actions are designed to further strengthen government oversight of
all biomedical research, including gene transfer research," Shalala said.

   The proposals and rules follow the shutdown of experiments at several medical
centers around the country, including Duke University, the University of
Pennsylvania, and St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, because of concerns
about insufficient patient protection or deaths. Critics have lambasted the
government for lax oversight, while the secretary's own inspector general has
exposed the failures of institutions to police themselves.

   Senator Edward Kennedy's press aide said yesterday the senator would support
legislation to establish the new fines. "We need to do all we can to ensure the
safety of patients in research projects," Kennedy said in a statement.

   Critics said the new initiatives were a positive beginning but questioned
whether they go far enough in protecting human research subjects. Joan Rachlin
of Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research, a Boston-based group, called
Shalala's announcement "an important first step" in protecting those who
volunteer for research.

   But Rachlin said the federal government should extend its protection to all
human studies, not just those funded by federal agencies, in light of the
burgeoning number of commercially sponsored trials. She also called for strong
conflict-of-interest rules for scientists with commercial ties, more uniform
policies across federal agencies, and a system to accredit institutions that
conduct human studies.

   Leaders of the research community yesterday said they generally supported the
new measures, although some were concerned about the size of the fines.
Currently, if problems with patient protection are discovered, the FDA can stop
clinical trials and the National Institutes of Health can withdraw all funding
to a university. But both agencies have been reluctant to pull the trigger.

   "It is important to have those [intermediate] mechanisms in place because the
gap between admonition and the death penalty has really been problematic," said
Nils Hasselmo, president of the Association of American Universities, an
organization of the nation's top research institutions. "Of course, we hope that
reform will catch on to such an extent that those sanctions will not be needed."

   Hasselmo said the universities are developing proposals of their own that
will be made public this summer.

   Allan Shipp, assistant vice president of the Association of American Medical
Colleges, said he supported additional training, but had concerns about the
severity of the proposed financial sanctions. In addition, he said,
institutional medical review boards "are under severe strain now because of the
sheer volume of clinical trials. These new protections will only add to their
burden."

   Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of
Pennsylvania, called the measure good steps that were long overdue. "Gene
therapy just brought a particular pot that was boiling to overflowing," he said.

   The rules, which will take effect immediately or as soon as regulations can
be worked out, will establish national uniformity in addressing researchers'
potential conflicts of interest. Any researcher with a financial stake in the
outcome of an experiment will be required to disclose that to research
participants. Currently, disclosure policies vary from institution to
institution, and disclosure to patients is rare.

   In addition, researchers will be required to get renewed consent from
participants if there is any serious problem or death in the trial. For risky
trials, institutions must take extra precautions to protect patients, which
might include having a third-party observe the informed consent process. And
institutions will be held responsible for their researchers' behavior and will
be required to audit their compliance with research rules.

   All lead researchers must attend training sessions on ethical research and
patient safety as a prerequisite for NIH funding. And the NIH will require more
extensive monitoring of early-stage experiments.

   "By putting these safety nets in place, it would protect the people who seem
to be the most vulnerable," said Susan Darke of Peabody, whose husband died
during a gene therapy experiment at St. Elizabeth's. She believes doctors didn't
properly inform the family of the risks.

   Although Roger Darke's death has not been linked to the gene treatment, his
doctor said the surgery involved may have been a factor. "I'm hoping Rog didn't
die in vain, that if nothing else, some new protections will come of it."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             525 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

                     May 24, 2000, WEDNESDAY, FINAL MARKETS

SECTION: NEWS; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 622 words

BODY:


   Presbyterian court OKs gay unions

   The Presbyterian Church's highest court ruled today that local congregations
have the right to conduct religious ceremonies celebrating gay unions that stop
short of marriage. The decision by the 16-member court is binding unless the
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) overrides it. The case, one
of three on gay issues argued last week before the tribunal, stemmed from a
same-sex ceremony performed in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The Northeast regional church
court ruled that ceremonies of "holy union" for same-sex couples may be
conducted if it is made clear they are not marriages. The high court agreed,
though it instructed regional church bodies to make a clearer distinction
between marriages and "blessing services."

   Astronauts breathing easy

   Atlantis' astronauts said today that they are breathing easy aboard the
international space station, thanks to improved ventilation and small fans. The
last visitors to the space station were sickened by stale air. Astronauts
initially encountered 86-degree heat and stagnant air inside the space station,
which had been shuttered for a full year. Astronaut Susan Helms and cosmonaut
Yuri Usachev -- who will move into the space station next year -- replaced
another bad battery under the floorboards and will replace another Thursday.
They also installed four new cooling fans and 10 new smoke detectors. Tonight,
Atlantis was scheduled to give the space station another orbital boost. Late
Tuesday, the pilots used the shuttle thrusters to lift the space station 10
miles. A third and final raising is planned for Thursday, at which time NASA
hopes to have hoisted the space station into an orbit 230 miles above Earth.

   Penn to halt research on humans

   The University of Pennsylvania's gene therapy institute, under fire over the
death of an Arizona teenager during an experiment last September, no longer will
perform research on humans, the school said today. The Institute for Human Gene
Therapy instead will focus on animal experiments and other basic research into
gene therapy. The Food and Drug Administration already had halted all clinical
trials at the institute, citing serious violations of federal research rules
important for patient safety.

   China trade bill nears approval

   Legislation to normalize trade with China and end 20 years of turbulent
annual reviews was moving toward approval in the House today. The measure would
grant permanent normal trade relations to Beijing and allow American businesses
to take full advantage of a series of market-opening concessions China has made
to join the World Trade Organization. Opponents failed earlier today in a
294-136 procedural vote to sidetrack the measure. A final roll call on the bill
was expected late this afternoon.

   Pinochet stripped of immunity: family

   A court has stripped Gen. Augusto Pinochet of immunity from prosecution,
leaving the ailing former dictator facing a long legal battle against
accusations of human rights violations, his associates and relatives said today.
The Santiago Court of Appeals voted behind closed doors Tuesday and did not
immediately release the decision. Pinochet's son, Marco Antonio, said his father
"received the news calmly, silently, with the decision to meet his advisers to
see how this situation will develop ahead." A Pinochet confidante, retired Gen.
Luis Cortes, said the 84-year-old former dictator's defense team will appeal the
ruling to the Supreme Court. According to an official report compiled by the
civilian government that succeeded Pinochet, 3,191 people died or disappeared
under his 1973-1990 regime. More than 100 lawsuits have been filed against him
stemming from that era.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000


                             526 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2000 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Fines sought for researchers breaking rules

SOURCE: Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $ 250,000
for scientists who violate medical research rules - and fines of $ 1 million for
rule-breaking universities or hospitals - amid criticism that the government
hasn't done enough to protect patients in clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Tuesday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

   Shalala still must ask Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and
Drug Administration to fine researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps Tuesday that will start immediately.
Among them are better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible
for overseeing patient safety and improved monitoring of how patients fare
day-to-day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities.

   Also, the FDA revealed Tuesday it has begun in-depth inspections of 70 gene
therapy experiments around the country.

   Among steps the agency is taking immediately:

   Scientists must prove how well participants were informed of risks.

   Those who get federal funding must get special training in patient safety and
bioethics.

   Early-stage clinical trials will undergo more intensive patient monitoring.

   Scientists must disclose to participants any financial interest in the
treatment they're testing.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             527 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Part 1; Page 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: TOUGHER GENE THERAPY PROTECTIONS URGED;
 HEALTH: FOR FIRST TIME, CLINTON ADMINISTRATION PROPOSES HEFTY FINES FOR
RESEARCHERS WHO VIOLATE GUIDELINES. SAFEGUARDS FOR PATIENTS A CHIEF CONCERN.

BYLINE: MARLENE CIMONS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   The Clinton administration announced Tuesday that it intends to strengthen
existing protections for patients in gene therapy research as well as for
volunteers in all biomedical research. And for the first time, it proposed hefty
fines for researchers who break the rules.

   Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala told reporters at a
briefing that the federal government also will begin monitoring research at
earlier stages than it does now--even when only small numbers of patients are
involved--and will ask Congress to give the Food and Drug Administration
authority to levy penalties of $ 250,000 on individual researchers and $ 1
million on institutions.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Shalala said. "We
need to get back to some basics--this is not about needing new rules or changing
a set of rules--we need to make sure that people are following the rules."

   In recent months, federal health agencies, including the FDA and the National
Institutes of Health, have announced a series of measures aimed at cracking down
on federally funded researchers who conduct risky gene therapy studies. These
measures include examining past records and increasing safety monitoring and
site visits.

   Tuesday's action was meant to extend and expand many of these same rules to
the conduct of all research, not just gene therapy.

   Shalala and officials of the FDA and NIH, all of whom oversee federally
funded research, stressed that they do not believe dangers to the public have
increased.

   Instead, they said, they are seeking to restore public confidence in a field
that, while beleaguered, holds "the potential for extraordinary breakthroughs,"
Shalala said.

   The "Golden Age" of biomedicine will continue "only if the public has full
confidence in the researchers and the institutions," she added.

   Noting that biomedical research in recent years has become more sophisticated
and complex, she said: "We are trying to get ahead of a world that is changing
under our feet."

   The measures were applauded by the biotechnology industry, which cited a
report last month by French researchers as proof that the research investment is
paying off. The French team successfully used gene therapy to treat infants born
with a life-threatening immune disorder.

   The patient trials are extremely important in finding cures for "untreatable
disease," said Michael J. Werner, director of federal government relations for
the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which represents more than 920
companies, academic institutions and biotech centers.

   Gene therapy research has been controversial since the death last September
of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger of Tucson, who had received gene therapy for a
liver disorder as a patient at the University of Pennsylvania's Institute of
Gene Therapy. After his death, FDA investigators determined that the institute
had violated several regulations in its conduct of the research and shut down
the program. It has also clamped down on several Boston gene therapy
researchers.

   FDA Commissioner Jane E. Henney said that the agency has launched a pilot
program to examine 70 ongoing gene experiments "to see if we have a deeper,
broader problem in this arena." But the results of the inquiry have not been
completed.

   Outlining the actions, many of which will be effective immediately, Shalala
said that federal agencies now will:

   * Ask Congress to approve legislation giving the FDA authority to impose
civil monetary penalties for violations of informed consent or other procedures
of as much as $ 250,000 for clinical investigators and as much as $ 1 million
for research institutions.

   The agency only has the power to halt research until problems are fixed.
Financial punishment will be "something that will get their attention
immediately," Henney said.

   The legislation will be sent to Congress "as soon as it's drafted," Shalala
said, although it is not clear whether Congress will have time to act on it this
year.

   * Require researchers to submit safety monitoring plans to the NIH earlier in
the research process--as early as the time they apply for NIH funding--rather
than after trials are well underway.

   * Undertake an aggressive effort to improve the education and training of
researchers, institutional review boards--panels whose members review patient
protection plans for each study--and staff members of research institutions.
Such training now will be required to receive NIH funding.

   * Issue specific guidelines regarding informed consent, the process of
explaining to patients the potential risks and benefits of participation.

   For particularly risky or complex clinical trials, institutional review
boards will be expected to take additional measures to ensure compliance with
informed consent procedures, for example, involving a neutral third party to
observe when a patient is being informed of the dangers and benefits.

   * Issue additional guidance to researchers to clarify its rules regarding
potential conflict-of-interest situations. The department plans to sponsor a
series of public meetings this summer to discuss better ways of managing
conflict of interest so that research is conducted objectively.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             528 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                      May 24, 2000 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04A

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Government proposes penalties aimed at boosting credibility of medical
research;
Announcement by Shalala comes amid claims of poor patient safety procedures

BYLINE: LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press

BODY:

   Washington -- Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $250,000
for scientists who violate medical research rules -- and fines of $1 million for
rule-breaking universities or hospitals -- amid criticism that the government
hasn't done enough to protect thousands of patients involved in clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Tuesday, stressing that the government
would hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but also the entire
research institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while -- Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps Tuesday that will start immediately:
better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day to day.

   FDA investigators recently have uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
a University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teenager last fall.

   To check for further problems, the FDA revealed Tuesday that it had begun
unprecedented in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. Health and Human Services' inspector general has repeatedly warned
since 1998 that there is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day
to day in clinical trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might
be too dangerous are missed. The local medical boards, called "institutional
review boards" or IRBs, primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained,
the inspector general said.

   Some critics have long questioned why the government hasn't better enforced
the rules. Many of the steps Shalala announced Tuesday were recommended by her
own inspector general in 1998, said Sidney Wolfe of the consumer advocacy group
Public Citizen.

   But Shalala said the biggest change was that the government would hold
accountable not just scientists who violate the rules, but also entire research
institutions and IRBs.

   President Clinton called the steps vital to ensure not just patient safety
but also public confidence in the integrity of cutting-edge science.

   "We are on the brink of discoveries that are astonishing," Clinton said. "But
as committed as we are to further progress, we must be as committed to ensuring
. . . the safety of those making these new discoveries possible."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             529 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Fines Proposed for Violations of Human Research Rules

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23

BODY:

   Responding to widely publicized lapses in medical experiments, the Clinton
administration announced today that it would seek authority from Congress to
levy fines of up to $250,000 on scientists who violate federal rules for human
research and $1 million on the universities that employ them.

   The proposed fines are part of a broad plan, unveiled this morning by Donna
E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services, to better protect the
thousands of patients who each year volunteer for medical experiments, including
tests of new drugs and cutting-edge treatments like gene therapy. It comes two
days before officials are to testify at a Senate hearing on patient safety.

    Under the plan, which President Clinton described today as "a critical first
step" toward improving patient safety, the government will require bioethics
training for clinical researchers and will lay down clear conflict-of-interest
guidelines for doctors who have financial stakes in their studies.

   There will be new requirements for monitoring small clinical experiments,
which are not subjected to the same intense regulatory scrutiny as larger
studies. And, Dr. Shalala said, research institutions will now be required to
audit records for proof that patients have truly given their "informed consent"
to participate.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Dr. Shalala said.
Saying she is concerned about maintaining public confidence in medical research,
she added, "We have to make sure that the entire enterprise is rigorous and has
enormous integrity."

   With the exception of the move to assess fines, which requires Congressional
action, Dr. Shalala said the initiatives outlined today would take effect
immediately. Her announcement brought praise from Dr. Nils Hasselmo, president
of the American Association of Universities, who called it a "constructive
action."

   But punishing scientists with fines is bound to be controversial, and may
face trouble on Capitol Hill. Senator Bill Frist, the Tennessee Republican who
has been leading a Congressional examination of federal research protections,
said today that the idea struck him as "somewhat premature." And it provoked a
strong reaction in some academic quarters.

   "It's radical and it's inappropriate," said Dr. Gerald S. Levey, dean of the
medical school at the University of California at Los Angeles. He added, "It
will drive people out of doing clinical research and, I think, cause a great
deal of chaos."

   At a morning press briefing to make the plan public, Dr. Shalala was flanked
by Dr. Jane E. Henney, who heads the Food and Drug Administration, and Dr. Ruth
Kirschstein, acting director of the National Institutes of Health. Both agencies
have come under criticism for lax oversight of gene therapy experiments,
particularly after the death of an 18-year-old patient, Jesse Gelsinger, at the
University of Pennsylvania last fall.

   An F.D.A. inspection cited a litany of deficiencies in the way that
experiment was run, and the agency has since shut down all gene therapy trials
at Penn, as well as certain other gene therapy studies. But the tactic of
shutting down an entire research program is draconian; some scientists call it
"the atomic bomb of research regulation." In explaining the rationale for using
fines, Dr. Henney said that while fines might sound harsh, they would actually
be an intermediate step.

   Dr. George Rupp, president of Columbia University, put it this way, in a
telephone interview: "The federal government doesn't have any intermediate
actions between dropping the atomic bomb and a wrist slap. This is clearly an
effort to look for a more focused and discriminating level of penalty."

   While much of the public attention has focused on gene therapy, gene research
is not the government's only safety concern. The biomedical revolution of the
last 20 years has produced countless medicines and therapies that have allowed
patients to live healthier, longer lives. But the scientific boom has brought
with it complications, Dr. Shalala said, that stretch across the spectrum of
science.

   In part, this is because novel technologies like gene therapy pose new risks.
At the same time, the changing relationship between academic scientists and
industry is posing new conflict of interest problems. In addition, the sheer
volume of clinical studies makes keeping tabs on them difficult.

   The patient safety infrastructure depends on hospital committees,
institutional review boards, that evaluate and approve human experiments. In a
report two years ago, the Inspector General of the Department of Health and
Human Services found that those committees are overloaded and may spend no more
than a few minutes reviewing each study.

   Dr. LeRoy H. Walters, a bioethicist at Georgetown University, cautioned that
without more money to beef up the committees, the government's new initiatives
will be of little use.

   "The institutional review board system is really strained almost to its
limit," Dr. Walters said, adding that without money to help with "high quality
research review," today's announcement "may feel to local institutions like it's
the whip being cracked once again."


   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             530 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                   MAY 24, 2000 Wednesday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: FEDS WANT RESEARCH FINES ON SCIENTISTS, UNIVERSITIES

BYLINE: Lauran Neergaard, Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $250,000 for scientists
who violate medical research rules - and fines of $1 million for rule-breaking
universities or hospitals - amid criticism that the government hasn't done
enough to protect thousands of patients involved in clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said yesterday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while - Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps that will start immediately: better
training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teen-ager last fall.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments.

   HHS' inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that there is little
independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in clinical trials,
meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too dangerous are
missed. The local medical boards, called "institutional review boards" or IRBs,
primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained, the inspector general
said.

   Several scientists caught violating research rules have claimed they were
confused about government requirements.

   But the nation's top regulators signaled impatience with that claim.

   "I don't accept the confusion defense," Shalala said bluntly.

   "These rules have been long-standing," added FDA Commissioner Jane Henney.
"They are pretty fundamental."

   In fact, some critics have long questioned why the government hasn't better
enforced the rules already. Many of the steps Shalala announced yesterday were
recommended by her own inspector general in 1998, said Dr. Sidney Wolfe of the
consumer advocacy group Public Citizen.

   But Shalala said the biggest change is that the government will hold
accountable not just scientists who violate the rules, but entire research
institutions and IRBs. Today, the FDA's main weapon for safety violations is
shutting down the worrisome experiment. That's important when an experiment
imminently threatens participants. But often the patient risk isn't that
immediate, so the FDA is reluctant to take a step that Henney called draconian.
Although the FDA already fines certain medical companies for various violations,
Congress would have to approve this new type of fine. It's not clear that
lawmakers would have time to pass such a bill this year, or that the
Republican-led Congress, long unfriendly to the FDA, would even approve.

   Among other steps the agency is taking immediately:

   * Scientists must prove how well participants were informed of an
experiment's risks, including telling them about risks that arise after a study
begins.

   * Scientists must disclose to study participants any financial interest in
the treatment they're testing.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002


                             531 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    May 24, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: FINES SOUGHT TO IMPROVE SAFETY OF CLINICAL RESEARCH

BYLINE: LAURAN NEERGAARD, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --

BODY:


   Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $ 250,000 for
scientists who violate medical research rules -- and fines of $ 1 million for
rule-breaking universities or hospitals -- amid criticism that the government
hasn't done enough to protect thousands of patients involved in clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said yesterday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while -- Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps that will start immediately: better
training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety; tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks; and improved monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania, where a gene therapy experiment killed an
Arizona teen-ager last fall.

   To check for further problems, the FDA revealed that it had begun
unprecedented in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. The HHS inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that
there is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in
clinical trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too
dangerous are missed. The local medical boards, called institutional review
boards, primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained, the inspector
general said.

   Several scientists caught violating research rules have claimed they were
confused about government requirements.

   "I don't accept the confusion defense," Shalala said bluntly.

   "These rules have been long-standing," added FDA Commissioner Jane Henney.
"They are pretty fundamental."

   In fact, many of the steps Shalala announced yesterday were recommended by
her own inspector general in 1998, said Dr. Sidney Wolfe of the consumer
advocacy group Public Citizen.

   But Shalala said the biggest change is that the government will hold
accountable not just scientists who violate the rules, but entire research
institutions and IRBs.

   President Clinton called the steps vital to ensure not just patient safety
but public confidence.

   "We are on the brink of discoveries that are astonishing," Clinton said.

   "But as committed as we are to further progress, we must be as committed to
ensuring ... the safety of those making these new discoveries possible. These
new actions are a critical first step."

   Today, the FDA's main weapon for safety violations is shutting down the
worrisome experiment. That's important when an experiment imminently threatens
participants. But often the patient risk isn't that immediate, so the FDA is
reluctant to take a step that Henney called draconian. The FDA hopes fines will
make more scientists behave.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             532 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                      May 24, 2000 Wednesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: BIG FINES PROPOSED FOR SHODDY SCIENCE;

BYLINE: By LAURAN NEERGAARD; ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $250,000 for scientists
who violate medical research rules - and fines of $1 million for rule-breaking
universities or hospitals - amid criticism that the government hasn't done
enough to protect thousands of patients involved in clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said yesterday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while - Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps yesterday that will start immediately:
better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teen-ager last fall.

   To check for further problems, the FDA revealed yesterday that it had begun
unprecedented in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. HHS' inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that there
is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in clinical
trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too dangerous
are missed. The local medical boards, called "institutional review boards" or
IRBs, primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained, the inspector
general said.

   Several scientists caught violating research rules have claimed they were
confused about government requirements.

   But the nation's top regulators signaled impatience with that claim.

   "I don't accept the confusion defense," Shalala said bluntly.

   President Clinton called the steps vital to ensure not just patient safety
but public confidence in the integrity of cutting-edge science.

   "We are on the brink of discoveries that are astonishing," Clinton said. "But
as committed as we are to further progress, we must be as committed to ensuring
... the safety of those making these new discoveries possible. These new actions
are a critical first step."

   Today, the FDA's main weapon for safety violations is shutting down the
worrisome experiment.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000


                             533 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            May 24, 2000, Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS;Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Protection sought for research patients; White House plan includes
fines for scientists, schools

BYLINE: Sheryl Gay Stolberg; NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE | The Associated Press
contributed to this report.

BODY:
 WASHINGTON -- Responding to widely publicized lapses in medical experiments,
the Clinton administration announced yesterday that it would seek authority from
Congress to levy fines of up to $250,000 on scientists who violate federal human
research rules, and $1 million on the universities that employ them.

   The proposed fines are part of a broad plan, unveiled yesterday morning by
Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala to improve protection for
the thousands of patients who volunteer each year for medical experiments, from
tests of new drugs to cutting-edge treatments like gene therapy.  The
announcement comes two days before officials are to testify at a Senate hearing
on patient safety.

   President Clinton called the steps vital to ensure not just patient safety
but public confidence in the integrity of cutting-edge science.

   "We are on the brink of discoveries that are astonishing," Clinton said.
"But as committed as we are to further progress, we must be as committed to
ensuring . . . the safety of those making these new discoveries possible.  These
new actions are a critical first step."

   Under the plan, the government will require bioethics training for clinical
researchers and will lay down clear conflict-of-interest guidelines for doctors
who have financial stakes in their studies.

   There will be new requirements for monitoring small clinical experiments,
which are not subjected to the same intense regulatory scrutiny as larger
studies.  And, Shalala said, research institutions will now be required to audit
records for proof that patients have truly given their "informed consent" to
participate.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Shalala said.

   With the exception of the move to assess fines, which requires congressional
action, Shalala said the initiatives outlined would take effect immediately.
Her announcement brought praise from Nils Hasselmo, president of the American
Association of Universities, who called it a "constructive action."

   But punishing scientists with fines is bound to be controversial, and may
face trouble on Capitol Hill. Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., who has been leading a
congressional examination of federal research protections, said the idea struck
him as "somewhat premature." And it provoked a strong reaction in some academic
quarters.

   "It's radical and it's inappropriate," said Dr. Gerald S. Levey, dean of the
medical school at the University of California Los Angeles.  He added, "It will
drive people out of doing clinical research."

   At a briefing announcing the plan, Shalala was flanked by Dr. Jane E. Henney,
who heads the Food and Drug Administration, and Dr. Ruth Kirschstein, acting
director of the National Institutes of Health.  Both agencies have come under
criticism for lax oversight of gene therapy experiments, particularly since the
death of an 18-year-old patient, Jesse Gelsinger, at the University of
Pennsylvania last fall.

   An FDA inspection cited a litany of deficiencies in the way that experiment
was run, and the agency has since shut down all gene therapy trials at Penn. But
the tactic of shutting down an entire research program is draconian, some
scientists say, calling it "the atomic bomb of research regulation." In
explaining the rationale for using fines, Henney said that while fines might
sound harsh, they would actually be an intermediate step.

   George Rupp, president of Columbia University, put it this way: "The federal
government doesn't have any intermediate actions between dropping the atomic
bomb and a wrist slap.  This is clearly an effort to look for a more focused and
discriminating level of penalty."


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000


                             534 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                        May 24, 2000, Wednesday , METRO

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Feds propose fines to improve medical test safety

BYLINE: Lauran Neergaard




BODY:  WASHINGTON - Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to
$250,000 for scientists who violate medical research rules - and fines of $1
million for rule-breaking universities or hospitals - amid criticism that the
government hasn't done enough to protect thousands of patients involved in
clinical trials.

    "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Tuesday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

    Scientists' wallets will be safe for a while - Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

    But Shalala announced additional steps Tuesday that will start immediately:
better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day.

    FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teen-ager last fall.

    To check for further problems, the FDA revealed Tuesday that it had begun
unprecedented in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

    But the issue isn't just gene therapy; it's all medical experiments. HHS'
inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that there is little
independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in clinical trials, with
the result that early warning signs that an experiment might be too dangerous
are missed. The local medical boards, called "institutional review boards" or
IRBs, primarily responsible are overworked and undertrained, the inspector
general said.

    Several scientists caught violating research rules have claimed they were
confused about government requirements.

    But federal regulators signaled impatience with that claim.

    "I don't accept the confusion defense," Shalala said bluntly.

    "These rules have been long-standing," added FDA Commissioner Jane Henney.
"They are pretty fundamental."

    In fact, some critics have long questioned why the government hasn't better
enforced the rules already. Many of the steps Shalala announced Tuesday were
recommended by her own inspector general in 1998, said Dr. Sidney Wolfe of the
consumer advocacy group Public Citizen.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             535 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 24, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS MAY FACE FINES FOR VIOLATING RULES OF MEDICAL RESEARCH;
U.S. PROPOSAL IS EFFORT TO PROTECT PATIENTS TAKING PART IN CLINICAL TRIALS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $ 250,000 for
scientists who violate medical research rules - and fines of $ 1 million for
rule-breaking universities or hospitals - following criticism that the
government hasn't done enough to protect thousands of patients involved in
clinical trials.

   "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Tuesday. She said the government will hold
not just the scientist at fault but the entire research institution.

   Scientists' wallets will be safe for awhile - Shalala still must ask Congress
to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

   But Shalala announced additional steps Tuesday that will start immediately:
better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible for overseeing
patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully informed of research
risks and improved monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day.

   FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
at the University of Pennsylvania, where a gene therapy experiment killed an
Arizona teen-ager last fall.

   To check for further problems, the FDA revealed Tuesday that it had begun
in-depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the country.

   But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. The department's inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998
that there is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day-to-day in
clinical trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too
dangerous are missed. Institutional review boards, the local medical boards that
are primarily responsible, are overworked and undertrained, the inspector
general said.

Among other steps the agency is taking immediately:

   * Scientists must prove how well participants were informed of an
experiment's risks, including telling them about unexpected risks that arise.

   * Institutional review boards and any clinical investigator who receives
federal funding must get special training in patient safety and bioethics.

   * Early-stage clinical trials will undergo more of the intensive patient
monitoring now mostly reserved for end-stage, or Phase III, experiments.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             536 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2000 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                             May 24, 2000 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Rules toughened and fines proposed to protect medical-research
patients

BYLINE: Lauran Neergaard, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Federal health officials are proposing fines of up to $250,000 for scientists
who violate medical research rules - and fines of $1 million for rule-breaking
universities or hospitals - amid criticism that the government hasn't done
enough to protect thousands of patients involved in clinical trials.

    "This is a clear message that we intend to get serious," Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala said yesterday, stressing that the government
will hold responsible not just the scientist at fault but the entire research
institution.

    Scientists' wallets will be safe for awhile - Shalala still must ask
Congress to pass legislation allowing the Food and Drug Administration to fine
researchers who break the rules.

    But Shalala announced additional steps yesterday that will start
immediately: better training of the local medical boards primarily responsible
for overseeing patient safety, tougher requirements that patients be fully
informed of research risks, and improved monitoring of how patients fare day to
day.

    FDA investigators have recently uncovered serious violations of basic
research rules at some of the nation's most prestigious universities, including
the University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that killed an Arizona
teenager last fall.

    To check for further problems, the FDA revealed yesterday that it had begun
unprecedented in- depth inspections of 70 gene therapy experiments around the
country.

    But the issue isn't just about gene therapy, it's about all medical
experiments. HHS' inspector general has repeatedly warned since 1998 that there
is little independent monitoring of how patients fare day to day in clinical
trials, meaning early warning signs that an experiment might be too dangerous
are missed.

    Today, the FDA's main weapon for safety violations is shutting down the
worrisome experiment.

   Among other steps the agency is taking immediately:

    Scientists must prove how well participants were informed of an experiment's
risks, including telling them about unexpected risks that arise after a study
begins.

    Early-stage clinical trials will undergo more of the intensive patient
monitoring now mostly reserved for end-stage, or Phase III, experiments.

    Scientists must disclose to study participants any financial interest in the
treatment they're testing.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007


                             537 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: U.S. tightens control over medical researchers

BYLINE: Anita Manning

BODY:

   U.S. health officials said Tuesday they will tighten oversight
of medical research on humans, including experimental gene therapy,
and will seek authority to levy fines of up to $ 1 million against
universities and other research facilities that fail to comply.

   The announcement follows several high-profile incidents in recent
months in which university researchers have become embroiled in
apparent financial conflicts of interest and failure to protect
the safety of patients.

   Those events "have highlighted the new pressures" facing researchers,
institutional review boards (or IRBs, which are ethical oversight
committees) and research institutions, says Donna Shalala, secretary
of Health and Human Services.


   As the science becomes more complex, she says, the importance
of "informed consent" -- the process by which patients in clinical
trials are given an explanation of the purposes, risks and benefits
of the research -- has intensified.

   The financial connections among researchers, institutions and
private companies also are growing more complex, Shalala says.

   "We want the institutions to hear this as both a comprehensive
and a clear message that this golden age of biomedical research
and clinical trials will continue only if the public has continued
confidence," she says.

   At a news conference with Ruth Kirschstein, acting National Institutes
of Health director, and Jane Henney, Food and Drug Administration
commissioner, Shalala outlined specific steps, effective immediately.
Highlights:

   * Training. Training in research bioethics and in clinical
trials involving humans will be improved and will be required
of all researchers receiving money from NIH and HHS.

   * Informed consent. The FDA and NIH will issue guidelines
on informed consent and clarify the responsibility of institutions
to ensure compliance. IRBs are expected to take extra measures
to ensure informed consent when clinical trials are high-risk
or especially complex.

   * Monitoring. NIH will require researchers in preliminary,
small-scale clinical trials to submit plans for monitoring safety
and ethics at the time of grant application.

   * Conflicts of interest. NIH and the FDA will develop conflict-of-interest
policies for biomedical research, and NIH will issue clarifications
on policies that apply to all NIH-financed research. Many institutions
have set up agreements with biotech companies and other private
companies, Kirschstein says, and "we will start to look at that
very carefully."

   * Penalties. HHS will ask Congress to authorize the FDA
to levy civil penalties for violations of informed consent and
other research practices of up to $ 250,000 per clinical researcher
and up to $ 1 million per research institution.

   Arthur Caplan, director of the University of Pennsylvania's Center
for Bioethics, says the initiatives are "a response to the perception
that across the board, institutions have been out of compliance
with human subjects' protection. It's overdue, it's timely, it's
tough. I'm glad to see them moving in this direction."



LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             538 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Clinical Trial Sanctions Urged; HHS Plans to Tighten Controls To
Protect Patients in Tests

BYLINE: Marc Kaufman , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   The Clinton administration wants the authority to fine scientists as much as
$ 250,000 if they violate patient research guidelines during human clinical
trials. Under the proposal, research institutions could face $ 1 million in
similar fines.

   The request was announced yesterday as part of a larger effort to tighten
controls on scientists who test medical treatments on people and comes after
recent revelations that doctors failed to properly protect volunteers in gene
therapy and other experiments.

   "We need to stop and say to everyone, 'Take notice,' " said Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna E. Shalala. "Investigators and institutions need to
know that when they deviate from accepted practices, there are consequences."

   In addition to telling researchers that they and their research centers will
face increased scrutiny of their human clinical trials, Shalala announced
several immediate efforts to increase patient protections. They include improved
training for the review boards that oversee patient safety at research
institutions, greater assurances that patients fully understand the risks they
will be facing, and increased monitoring of patients' welfare in the earlier
stages of the clinical trial process.

   FDA Commissioner Jane E. Henney said yesterday that agency inspectors have
also begun unprecedented examinations of 30 gene therapy trials that are still
in their early phases. And National Institutes of Health Acting Director Ruth
Kirschstein said her agency will conduct 10 site visits to research institutions
to see how they are handling patient protection issues.

   "What's at stake is the integrity of research, public confidence in that
research and the integrity of the institutions as well as researchers all around
the country," Shalala said.

   Since September, gene therapy and human trials in general have come under
intense public scrutiny and criticism after teenager Jesse Gelsinger died in a
University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment that federal regulators
concluded was badly managed. Congressional and governmental inquiries later
revealed hundreds of lapses in similar studies being conducted around the
country.

   The HHS inspector general also reported last month that the "institutional
review boards" that oversee human clinical trials at research universities are
often overworked and undertrained. The inspector general criticized HHS for
making "minimal progress" in implementing suitable protections for people
enrolled in medical experiments, although the office had detailed widespread
problems with the procedures two years before.

   Sen. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), who has scheduled a hearing for Thursday on
patient safety during research trials, called yesterday's announcements by the
administration "a step in the right direction."

   But he raised doubts about the proposed civil penalties, saying "it strikes
me as somewhat premature to create civil monetary penalties before fully
assessing the current federal guidelines and regulations, which have not been
thoroughly examined since 1981."

   However, the proposal to enable the FDA to fine researchers and their
institutions won support yesterday from Nils Hasselmo, president of the
Association of American Universities, which represents large research
universities. He said that under current statutes, federal authorities can only
criticize research practices or withdraw federal funds from an entire research
enterprise, and do little in between.

   "It is a positive proposal because it provides for something between an
admonition and the death penalty," Hasselmo said of the civil penalties. His
organization appointed a task force in March to examine the issues of patient
consent and potential institutional conflicts of interest involving clinical
trials.

   "There will be strong action coming from inside the research university
community itself," Hasselmo said. "Our recommendations will likely go very much
in the same directions as Secretary Shalala."

   The federal proposal was not as well received by Vera Hassner Sharav, an
activist with the New York-based Citizens for Responsible Care and Research. She
believes that research institutions have been left with too much of the
responsibility for policing themselves.

   "Public confidence in clinical trials has been shaken by revelations that
human beings have been put at high risks without those risks being disclosed to
them," she said. "This directive hardly tackles that major, fundamental issue."

   While the administration's proposal focuses on improving patient safety
during human trials and clarifying who is responsible for ensuring it, the
increasingly complex question of researcher conflicts of interest is also
addressed.

   Shalala said that new guidelines will be drawn up regarding potential
conflicts when researchers, or research institutions, have financial
relationships with biotech or other medical firms. The agency will hold public
meetings this summer to explore ways of managing the conflicts and making sure
that research subjects are aware of them.

   "We need to clarify and reassert oversight and responsibility, and if we need
additional tools, we will get additional tools," Shalala said. "This cannot be
business as usual because the business has changed fundamentally."


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             539 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      MAY 23, 2000 Tuesday SFCITY EDITION

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: GRAY DAY A GREAT DAY FOR PENN GRADS FROM OUTSIDE THE U.S. OR THE
TRACKS' WRONG SIDE, THEY SEE BLUE SKIES AHEAD.

BYLINE: James M. O'Neill, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   William Felder is a convicted felon. By his own account, he was a money
launderer. He sold drugs, first to high-flying Wall Street customers, then to
regular street buyers. He used drugs, too. He lived on the streets of Manhattan,
sometimes in subway tunnels.

   That's Felder's past. He sees his future in different hues.

   Yesterday, under a chilly May rain, Felder, garbed in the citron-lined hood
of a master's-degree recipient in social work, hooted and hollered and hugged
the classmates around him.

   At 53, he was among the most ebullient of the University of Pennsylvania's
5,000 or so graduates gathered on the puddled Franklin Field Astroturf.

   His son, Dexter, a Lafayette College alum, was among the 15,000 or so
relatives huddled under umbrellas in the stands. He was proud his son could
attend, for he had been in prison during Dexter's graduation from high school
and college.

   Felder said he had applied for a job in the New York City public-school
system.

   "I want to work with kids who don't have a voice," he explained.

   He remembers what being powerless feels like. His own father was killed in
Korea when Felder was 4.

   Then there was the time a public-school student threw a cherry bomb at him as
Felder walked home from seventh grade in his Catholic-school uniform. When he
retaliated by hurling firecrackers on a school bus, he experienced the first of
what would be many encounters with the police.

   He endured racism at a high school for troubled boys and later in the
workplace and, in retaliation, he said, turned to crime.

   Finally, after his last conviction, in the early 1990s, he was ordered into a
drug-treatment program and met a social worker who helped set him on course.

   He went on to earn a bachelor's degree from the City University of New York
and now has added a master's from Penn.

   "He has a passion about learning and about changing social injustice," said
Roberta Iversen, a professor of his. "He gave to the school at least as much as
he received."

   While Felder celebrated, the Franklin Field spotlights burned against the
gray sky, illuminating a mist that swirled about the red-and-blue class flags
flapping above the upper deck.

   It felt more like a day for early-winter football than spring commencement.
Bubbles released by students into the air reflected the white light and
resembled snowflakes.

   Still, the students partied on.

   Shivani Tibrewala, a graduating senior from India, hugged her close friend,
Sasibai Kimis, of Malaysia.

   "Well, I don't know where life will lead us next," Tibrewala said, "but
there's always e-mail and ICQ [an Internet chat-room system]."

   Just rows away, Lisa Gray, a psychology major from New York, flipped her cell
phone closed. She had just called her parents and boyfriend - up in the stands.

   "I'm really excited," she said. "I've worked really hard for this day."

   For Penn itself, the celebration ended a turbulent nine months. The school
year got off to a horrible start when a student volunteer at the gene-therapy
institute died, marking the nation's first known death from gene therapy.

   Penn's health system, meanwhile, endured 500 layoffs to stem fiscal
hemorrhaging, and president Judith Rodin removed William Kelley, its top
executive.

   In February, Rodin faced a weeklong sit-in by students demanding that the
university switch allegiances from one sweatshop-monitoring organization to
another.

   And Penn's plan to break ground for a public school in West Philadelphia were
delayed because of neighbors' concerns.

   All of that, though, dissolved in the mist amid the many exhortations for
"the Class of the Double Zeros" to apply its new skills judiciously for
society's good.

   As commencement speaker Seamus Heaney, the Nobel Prize-winning Irish poet,
rose, the rain fell. He cited a line from a poem of his - "Who is my neighbor?
My neighbor is all mankind" - and offered this challenge:

   "Remember the anchor of your being lies in human affection and human
responsibility. But remember also to keep swimming up into the air of envisaged
possibilities and to keep on finding new answers to the question that Benjamin
Franklin said was the noblest: 'What good may I do in the world?'"

   William Felder can appreciate that point. He expects his new parchment to
help him escape the limits of a troubled past and to give him a chance to do
good in the world.

   "This degree," Felder said, "is probably the greatest possible thing for my
esteem."

   James M. O'Neill's e-mail address is joneill@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             540 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             May 23, 2000, Tuesday
                              CORRECTION APPENDED

SECTION: SPECIAL: SAN DIEGO INC.;Pg. S.D. INC.-13

LENGTH: 6571 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Capsules; A selection of companies trades on NYSE, AMEX and
NASDAQ

BODY:
 Advanced Marketing Services

   5880 Oberlin Drive, Suite 400

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 457-2500

   www.admsweb.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 491

   [] CEO: Michael M. Nicita

   [] Stock symbol: ADMS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Advanced Marketing Services is a distributor of general interest books to
membership warehouse clubs and certain specialty retailers.

   Advanced Tissue Sciences

   10933 North Torrey Pines Road

   La Jolla, 92037

   (858) 713-7300

   www.advancedtissue.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 207

   [] CEO: Arthur J. Benvenuto

   [] Stock symbol: ATIS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Advanced Tissue Sciences is a tissue-engineering company engaged in the
development of living human tissue products for therapeutic applications.

   Alaris Medical

   10221 Wateridge Circle

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 458-7000

   www.alarismed.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 2,919

   [] CEO: David Schlotterbeck

   [] Stock symbol: AMI

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Advanced Medical, through its major operating subsidiary, is a provider of
infusion systems and related technologies to the health-care industry.

   Aldila

   12140 Community Road

   Poway, 92064

   (858) 513-1801

   www.aldila.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 920

   [] CEO: Pete Mathewson

   [] Stock symbol: ALDA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Aldila is a designer and manufacturer of high-quality graphite golf shafts.

   Alliance Pharmaceutical

   3040 Science Park Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 558-4300

   www.allp.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 221

   [] CEO: Duane J. Roth

   [] Stock symbol: ALLP

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Alliance Pharmaceutical develops scientific discoveries into medical products
and licenses them to multinational pharmaceutical companies in exchange for
fixed payments and royalties.

   American Residential Investment Trust

   445 Marine View Ave., Suite 230

   Del Mar, 92014

   (858) 350-5000

   www.amerreit.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 14

   [] CEO: John M. Robbins

   [] Stock symbol: INV

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   American Residential Investment Trust is a real estate investment trust that
invests in residential adjustable-rate mortgage securities and mortgage loans.

   American Technology

   13114 Evening Creek Drive South

   San Diego, 92128

   (858) 679-2114

   www.atcsd.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 18

   [] CEO: Cornelius Brosnan

   [] Stock symbol: ATCO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   American Technology markets radios made by other companies and is developing
proprietary sound technologies, including its HyperSonic technology.

   Amistar

   237 Via Vera Cruz

   San Marcos, 92069-2617

   (760) 471-1700

   www.amistar.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 134

   [] CEO: Stuart C. Baker

   [] Stock symbol: AMTA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Amistar designs, develops, manufactures, markets and services a variety of
automatic equipment for assembling electronic components on printed circuit
boards.

   Amylin Pharmaceuticals

   9373 Towne Centre Drive

   Suite 250

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 552-2200

   www.amylin.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 60

   [] CEO: Joseph C. Cook, Jr.

   [] Stock symbol: AMLN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Amylin Pharmaceuticals focuses on developing therapeutics for treating people
with diabetes and other metabolic disorders.

   Anacomp

   12365 Crosthwaite Circle

   Poway, 92064

   (858) 679-9797

   www.anacomp.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 2,500

   [] CEO: Ralph Koehrer

   [] Stock symbol: ANCO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Anacomp is a provider of products and services that enable organizations to
manage their documents.

   Applied Micro Circuits

   6290 Sequence Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 450-9333

   www.amcc.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 361

   [] CEO: David M. Rickey

   [] Stock symbol: AMCC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Advanced Micro Circuits designs, develops, manufactures and markets
high-performance, high-bandwidth silicon solutions for communications
infrastructure.

   Ashworth

   2791 Loker Avenue West

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 438-6610

   www.ashworthinc.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 466

   [] CEO: Randall L. Herrel, Sr.

   [] Stock symbol: ASHW

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Ashworth markets and distributes a full line of sports apparel, headwear and
shoes under the Ashworth label.

   Aurora Biosciences

   11010 Torreyana Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 452-5000

   www.aurorabio.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 197

   [] CEO: Stuart Collinson

   [] Stock symbol: ABSC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Aurora Biosciences designs, develops and sells proprietary drug discovery
systems, services and technologies to accelerate the discovery of medicines by
the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries.

   Avanir Pharmaceuticals

   9393 Towne Centre Drive

   Suite 200

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 558-0364

   www.avanir.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 15

   [] CEO: Gerald Yakatan

   [] Stock symbol: AVN

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Avanir Pharmaceuticals is a development stage company organized to discover,
develop and market therapeutic products to treat disease.

   Biosite Diagnostic

   11030 Roselle St.

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 455-4808

   www.biosite.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 303

   [] CEO: Kim D. Blickenstaff

   [] Stock symbol: BSTE

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Biosite Diagnostic develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic products to
improve the quality of patient care and simplify the practice of laboratory
medicine.

   Burnham Pacific Properties

   110 W. A St., Suite 900

   San Diego, 92101

   (619) 652-4700

   www.burnhampacific.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 114

   [] CEO: J. David Martin

   [] Stock symbol: BPP

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Burnham Pacific Properties is a fully-integrated real estate operating
company that acquires, rehabilitates, develops and manages retail shopping
centers on the West Coast.

   Cohu

   5755 Kearny Villa Road

   San Diego, 92123-1170

   (858) 277-6700

   www.cohu.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 1,300

   [] CEO: Charles A. Schwan

   [] Stock symbol: COHU

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Cohu's semiconductor test handling equipment is used in the final test of
integrated circuits.  A television and other equipment segment includes
electronic imaging, surveillance detection and microwave communication products.

   Charlotte Russe Holding

   4645 Morena Blvd.

   San Diego, 92117

   (858) 587-1500

   [] Worldwide employees: 745

   [] CEO: Bernard Zeichner

   [] Stock symbol: CHIC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Charlotte Russe sells apparel and accessories, primarily to women between 15
and 35. The company operates Charlotte Russe and Rampage stores in malls.

   CinemaStar Luxury Theaters

   12230 El Camino Real, Suite 320

   San Diego, 92130

   (858) 509-2777

   www.cinemastar.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 62

   [] CEO: Jack R. Crosby

   [] Stock symbol: LUXY

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   CinemaStar Luxury Theaters develops, owns and operates multi-screen,
primarily first-run movie theaters in Southern California.

   CardioDynamics International

   6175 Nancy Ridge Drive, Suite 300

   San Diego, 92121

   (619) 535-0202

   www.cardiodynamics.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 75

   [] CEO: Michael K. Perry

   [] Stock symbol: CDIC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   CardioDynamics International develops, manufactures and markets heart
monitoring devices that provide data on blood flow and heart function.

   Callaway Golf

   2285 Rutherford Road

   Carlsbad, 92008-8815

   (760) 931-1771

   www.callawaygolf.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 2,526

   [] CEO: Ely Callaway

   [] Stock symbol: ELY

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Callaway Golf designs, manufactures and markets innovative golf clubs.

   Collateral Therapeutics

   9360 Towne Centre Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 794-3400

   www.collateralthx.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 44

   [] CEO: Jack W. Reich, Ph.D.

   [] Stock symbol: CLTX

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Collateral Therapeutics focuses on the discovery, development and
commercialization of non-surgical gene therapy products for the treatment of
cardiovascular diseases.

   Community Bancorp

   130 W. Fallbrook St.

   Fallbrook, 92028

   (760) 723-8811

   www.communitybancorp.net

   [] Worldwide employees: 104

   [] CEO: Thomas Swanson

   [] Stock symbol: CMBC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Community Bancorp is the parent company of Fallbrook National Bank. Offices
are maintained in San Diego, Orange and Los Angeles counties.

   Corvas International

   3030 Science Park Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 455-9800

   www.corvas.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 73

   [] CEO: Randall E. Woods

   [] Stock symbol: CVAS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Corvas International is a biopharmaceutical firm engaged in the design and
development of therapeutic agents in the fields of blood clot formation and
inflammation and other diseases.

   Creative Host Services

   6335 Ferris Square, Suite G

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 587-7300

   [] Worldwide employees: 547

   [] CEO: Sayed Ali

   [] Stock symbol: CHST

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Creative Host Services is in the business of acquiring and operating food,
beverage and other concessions at airports throughout the United States.

   Cubic

   9333 Balboa Ave.

   San Diego, 92123-5587

   (858) 277-6780

   www.cubic.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 3,600

   [] CEO: W.J. Zable

   [] Stock symbol: CUB

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Cubic designs, develops, and manufactures electronic products.

   Cymer

   16750 Via Del Campo Court

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 385-7300

   www.cymer.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 767

   [] CEO: Dr. Robert P. Akins

   [] Stock symbol: CYMI

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Cymer provides excimer laser illumination sources for use in deep ultraviolet
photolithography systems for the semiconductor manufacturing market.

   Cypress Biosciences

   4350 Executive Drive, Suite 325

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 452-2323

   www.cypressbio.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 56

   [] CEO: Jay D. Kranzler, M.D./Ph.D.

   [] Stock symbol: CYPB

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Cypress Bioscience researches, develops, manufactures and markets medical
devices and therapeutics for the treatment of immune disorders and develops
therapeutic agents for the treatment of blood platelet disorders.

   Daou Systems

   5120 Shoreham Place

   San Diego, 92122

   (8589) 452-2221

   www.daou.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 812

   [] CEO: Larry Grandia

   [] Stock symbol: DAOU

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Daou designs, implements, supports and manages advanced computer network
systems for hospitals, integrated health-care delivery networks and other
health-care provider organizations.

   Datron Systems

   3030 Enterprise Court

   Vista, 92083

   (760) 734-5454

   www.dtsi.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 331

   [] CEO: David A. Derby

   [] Stock symbol: DTSI

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Datron Systems provides specialized satellite communication and image
processing systems and radio and other wireless communication products and
services.

   Document Sciences

   6339 Paseo Del Lago

   Carlsbad, 92009

   (760) 602-1400

   www.docscience.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 140

   [] CEO: Barton Faber

   [] Stock symbol: DOCX

   [] In Stock exchange: NAS

   Document Sciences Corporation develops, markets and supports a family of
document automation software products and services used in high-volume
electronic publishing applications.

   Diversa

   10665 Sorrento Valley Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 623-5106

   www.diversa.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 102

   [] CEO: Jay M. Short

   [] Stock symbol: DVSA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Diversa discovers and develops novel enzymes and other biologically active
compounds from diverse environmental sources.

   Dot Hill Systems

   6305 El Camino Real

   Carlsbad, 92009

   (760) 931-5500

   www.boxhill.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 329

   [] CEO: Philip Black and James L. Lambert

   [] Stock symbol: HIL

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Dot Hill Systems designs, manufactures, markets and supports data storage
systems for the open systems computing environment.

   Dura Pharmaceuticals

   7475 Lusk Blvd.

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 457-2553

   www.durapharm.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 511

   [] CEO: Cam L. Garner

   [] Stock symbol: DURA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Dura Pharmaceuticals is a specialty respiratory pharmaceutical and pulmonary
drug delivery company.

   Eco Soil Systems

   10740 Thornmint Road

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 675-1660

   www.ecosoil.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 244

   [] CEO: William B. Adams

   [] Stock symbol: ESSI

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Eco Soil Systems develops, markets and sells proprietary biological and
traditional chemical products for a variety of turf and crop applications in the
golf and agricultural industries.

   Encad

   6059 Cornerstone Court West

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 452-0882

   www.encad.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 431

   [] CEO: David Purcell

   [] Stock symbol: ENCD

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Encad designs, develops, manufactures and markets wide-format, color inkjet
printer systems designed to increase productivity in computer applications
requiring quality printed output.

   Epimmune

   5820 Nancy Ridge Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 860-2500

   [] Worldwide employees: 51

   [] CEO: Deborah Schueren

   [] Stock symbol: EPMN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Epimmune discovers, designs and develops immunotherapeutics, divided into
three programs: theradigm vaccine (infectious diseases and cancers);
inflammation (antiflammatory cell adhesion inhibitors); and glycotechnology
(synthesis of bioactive complex carbohydrates).

   Excel Legacy

   17140 Bernardo Center Drive

   Suite 30

   San Diego, 92128

   (858) 485-9400

   [] Worldwide employees: N.A.

   [] CEO: Gary B. Sabin

   [] Stock symbol: XLG

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Excel Legacy pursues real estate opportunities, including those not
restricted by the federal income tax laws governing REITs.

   Factory 2-U Stores

   4000 Ruffin Road

   San Diego, 92123

   (858) 627-1800

   www.family-bargain.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 4,212

   [] CEO: Mike Searles

   [] Stock symbol: FTUS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Factory 2-U Stores operates Factory 2-U and Family Bargain Center off-price
retail apparel and home goods stores.

   Fotoball USA

   3738 Ruffin Road

   San Diego, 92123

   (858) 467-9900

   www.fotoball.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 86

   [] CEO: Michael Favish

   [] Stock symbol: FUSA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Fotoball USA designs, develops, manufactures and markets custom sports
products that are sold in the licensed product retail market through independent
manufacturers' representatives.

   Garden Fresh Restaurant

   17180 Bernardo Center Drive

   San Diego, 92128

   (858) 675-1600

   [] Worldwide employees: 4,600

   [] CEO: Michael P. Mack

   [] Stock symbol: LTUS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Garden Fresh Restaurant operates 51 salad buffet restaurants under the names
Souplantation and Sweet Tomatoes.

   Gateway

   4545 Towne Centre Court

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 799-3401

   www.gateway.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 21,000

   [] CEO: Jeffrey Weitzen

   [] Stock symbol: GTW

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Gateway 2000 develops, markets, manufactures and supports a broad line of
desktop and portable PC's and PC-related products.

   Genetronics Biomedical

   11199 Sorrento Valley Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (619) 597-6006

   www.genetronics.com

   [] Worldwide employees: N.A.

   [] CEO: Martin Nash

   [] Stock symbol: GEB

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Genetronics Biomedical develops, manufactures and markets electroporation
instrumentation and accessories.

   Glacier Water Services

   2261 Cosmos Court

   Carlsbad, 92009

   (760) 930-2420

   [] Worldwide employees: 335

   [] CEO: Jerry Gordon

   [] Stock symbol: HOO

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Glacier Water Services provides drinking water dispensed to consumers through
self-service vending machines designed, developed and assembled by Glacier.

   HNC Software

   5935 Cornerstone Court West

   San Diego, 92121-3728

   (858) 799-8000

   www.hncs.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 1,217

   [] CEO: John Mutch

   [] Stock symbol: HNCS

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   HNC Software develops, markets, and supports predictive software solutions
for service industries.

   Hollis-Eden Pharmaceuticals

   9333 Genesee Ave., Suite 200

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 587-9333

   www.holliseden.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 25

   [] CEO: Richard Hollis

   [] Stock symbol: HEPH

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Hollis-Eden is a bio-pharmaceutical engaged in the development and
commercialization of therapeutic and preventative pharmaceutical agents for the
treatment of infectious diseases and disorders.

   ICH

   9255 Towne Centre Drive

   Suite 600

   San Diego, 92121

   (619) 587-8533

   [] Worldwide employees: 7,200

   [] CEO: James R. Arabia

   [] Stock symbol: IH

   []Stock exchange: Amex

   ICH operates a chain of fast-food restaurants in Texas, Michigan,
Pennsylvania and Florida, as a franchisee of Arby's.

   IDEC Pharmaceuticals

   3030 Callan Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 431-8500

   www.idecpharm.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 407

   [] CEO: William H. Rastetter, M.D.

   [] Stock symbol: IDPH

   []Stock exchange: NAS

   IDEC Pharmaceuticals is primarily engaged in the commercialization and
research and development of therapies for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.

   ITLA Capital

   888 Prospect St.

   La Jolla, 92037

   (858) 551-0511

   www.imperialthrift.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 132

   [] CEO: George W. Haligowski

   [] Stock symbol: ITLA

   []Stock exchange: NAS

   ITLA Capital, a thrift and loan company, provides loans secured by income
producing properties and other lending/deposit services.  ITLA has 10 offices
and one loan production office.

   ImageWare Systems

   10883 Thornmint Road

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 673-8600

   www.iwsinc.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 52

   [] CEO: Jim Miller

   [] Stock symbol: IW

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   ImageWare Systems' products allow sharing of criminal-history data among law
enforcement and other agencies.

   Immune Response

   5935 Darwin Court

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 431-7080

   www.imnr.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 103

   [] CEO: Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D.

   [] Stock symbol: IMNR

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Immune Response is a biopharmaceutical company engaged in the development of
proprietary products in the areas of HIV, autoimmmune disease, gene therapy and
cancer.

   Innovative Medical Services

   1725 Gillespie Way

   El Cajon, 92020

   (619) 596-8600

   www.imspure.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 23

   [] CEO: Michael L. Krall

   [] Stock symbol: PURE

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Innovative Medical Services is in the business of manufacturing and marketing
a water purification, measuring and dispensing apparatus used in pharmacies to
reconstitute oral antibiotic suspensions.

   Invitrogen

   1600 Faraday Ave.

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 603-7200

   www.invitrogen.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 376

   [] CEO: Lyle C. Turner

   [] Stock symbol: IVGN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Invitrogen develops, manufactures, and sells research kits, as well as
provides research services to corporate, academic, and government entities.
Products have applications in cloning, gene expression and gene analysis
techniques, as well as other molecular biology activities and gene-based drug
discovery.

   Isis Pharmaceuticals

   2292 Faraday Ave.

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 931-9200

   www.isip.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 352

   [] CEO: Stanley T. Crooke M.D., Ph.D.

   [] Stock symbol: ISIP

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Isis Pharmaceuticals is a leader in the discovery and development of drugs
based on antisense technology.

   JMAR Industries

   3956 Sorrento Valley Blvd.

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 535-1706

   www.jmar.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 125

   [] CEO: John S. Martinez, Ph.D.

   [] Stock symbol: JMAR

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   JMAR Industries develops, manufactures and markets precision measurement,
process control and manufacturing systems and laser and semiconductor products
for the microelectronics and medical industries.

   JNI

   9775 Towne Centre Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 535-3121

   www.jni.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 127

   [] CEO: Terry M. Flanagan

   [] Stock symbol: JNIC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   JNI supplies computer hardware and software products for so-called fiber
channel technology, which connects servers and data storage devices to form
storage area networks.

   Jack In The Box

   9330 Balboa Ave.

   San Diego, 92123

   (858) 571-2121

   www.foodmaker.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 37,800

   [] CEO: Robert J. Nugent

   [] Stock symbol: JBX

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Foodmaker owns, operates and franchises Jack In The Box, a chain of fast-food
restaurants.

   Jenny Craig

   11355 North Torrey Pines Road

   La Jolla, 92037

   (619) 812-7000

   www.jennycraig.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 3,520

   [] CEO: Sidney Craig

   [] Stock symbol: JC

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Jenny Craig provides weight management programs through a chain of
company-owned and franchised centers.

   La Jolla Pharmaceutical

   6455 Nancy Ridge Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 452-6600

   www.ljpc.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 109

   [] CEO: Steven B. Engle

   [] Stock symbol: LJPC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   La Jolla Pharmaceutical is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the
research and development of therapeutics for the treatment of certain
life-threatening antibody-medicated diseases.

   Lancer Orthodontics

   253 Pawnee Street

   San Marcos, 92069-2437

   (760) 744-8756

   www.lancerortho.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 43

   [] CEO: Doug Miller

   [] Stock symbol: LANZ

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Lancer Orthodontics manufactures and markets orthodontic products.

   Ligand Pharmaceuticals

   10275 Science Center Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 550-7500

   www.ligand.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 418

   [] CEO: David E. Robinson

   [] Stock symbol: LGND

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Ligand Pharmaceuticals is engaged in the discovery and development of drugs
that regulate hormone activated intracellular receptors.

   Maxim Pharmaceuticals

   8899 University Center Lane

   Suite 400

   San Diego, 92122

   (858) 453-4040

   www.maxim.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 52

   [] CEO: Larry G. Stambaugh

   [] Stock symbol: MAXM

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Maxim Pharmaceuticals develops therapeutics for the treatment of cancer and
infectious diseases.

   Leap Wireless International

   10307 Pacific Center Court

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 882-6000

   www.leapwireless.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 90

   [] CEO: Harvey P. White

   [] Stock symbol: LWIN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Leap Wireless International manages, supports, operates and otherwise
participates in Code Division Multiple Access-based wireless telecommunications
businesses and ventures.

   MP3.com

   4790 Eastgate Mall

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 623-7000

   www.mp3.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 284

   [] CEO: Michael L. Robertson

   [] Stock symbol: MPPP

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   MP3.com promotes and distributes music using the Internet.  The company
enables customers

   to access a music catalog and search, sample and download music free of
chage.

   Maxwell Technologies

   9275 Sky Park Court

   San Diego, 92123

   (858) 277-6745

   www.maxwell.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 1,093

   [] CEO: Kenneth F. Potashner

   [] Stock symbol: MXWL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Maxwell Technologies develops, manufactures and markets power conversion
products, purification systems, EMI filters, industrial computers and subsystems
and defense products for commercial and government markets.

   Metrika Systems

   5788 Pacific Center Blvd.

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 450-9649

   www.thermo.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 500

   [] CEO: Ernesto A. Corte

   [] Stock symbol: MKA

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Metrika Systems develops, manufactures, and markets on-line process
optimization systems that employ high-speed measurement technologies for
applications in raw materials analysis and finished materials quality control.

   Mitek Systems

   10070 Carroll Canyon Road

   San Diego, 92131

   (858) 635-5900

   www.miteksys.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 36

   [] CEO: John M. Thornton

   [] Stock symbol: MITK

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Mitek Systems designs, manufactures and markets advanced character
recognition products for processing applications, such as check and remittance
processing and order entry.

   NTN Communications

   5966 La Place Court

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 438-7400

   www.ntn.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 124

   [] CEO: Stanley B. Kinsey

   [] Stock symbol: NTN

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   NTN Communications develops, produces and distributes individual and
multi-player interactive programs for a variety of media platforms.

   Nanogen

   10398 Pacific Center Court

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 546-7700

   www.nanogen.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 142

   [] CEO: Howard C. Birndorf

   [] Stock symbol: NGEN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Nanogen integrates advanced microelectronics and molecular biology into
platform technology with broad commercial applications in the fields of medical
diagnostics, biomedical research, genomics, genetic testing and drug discovery.

   Natural Alternatives

   International

   1185 Linda Vista Drive

   San Marcos, 92069

   (760) 744-7340

   www.nai-online.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 121

   [] CEO: Mark A. Le Doux

   [] Stock symbol: NAII

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Natural Alternatives International formulates and produces vitamins,
micronutrients and related nutritional supplements and provides private-label
products for commercial accounts.

   Neurocrine Biosciences

   10555 Science Center Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 658-7600

   www.neurocrine.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 142

   [] CEO: Gary A. Lyons

   [] Stock symbol: NBIX

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Neurocrine Biosciences, a neuroimmunology company, is focused on the
discovery and development of therapeutics to treat diseases and disorders of the
central nervous and immune systems.

   Newgen Results

   12680 High Bluff Drive, Suite 300

   San Diego, 92130

   (858) 481-7545

   www.ngresults.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 364

   [] CEO: Gerald Benowitz

   [] Stock symbol: NWGN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Newgen Results provides auto dealerships with sevices designed to improve
customer contact.

   Nitches

   10280 Camino Santa Fe

   San Diego, 92121

   (619) 625-2633

   www.nitches.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 42

   [] CEO: Steven P. Wyandt

   [] Stock symbol: NICH

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Nitches is an importer and wholesale distributor of women's woven cotton
sportswear.

   On-Point Technology Systems

   1370 W. San Marcos Blvd., Suite 100

   San Marcos, 92069

   (760) 510-4900

   www.onpt.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 106

   [] CEO: Frederick Sandvick

   [] Stock symbol: ONPTE

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   On-Point Technology Systems designs, manufactures and services vending
terminals for the sale and leasing of instant-winner lottery tickets and prepaid
telephone calling cards.

   Ontro

   13250 Gregg St.

   Poway, 92064

   (619) 486-7200

   www.ontro.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 20

   [] CEO: James A. Scudder

   [] Stock symbol: ONTR

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Ontro is engaged in the research and development of integrated thermal
containers.

   Overland Data

   8975 Balboa Ave.

   San Diego, 92123-1599

   (858) 571-5555

   www.overlanddata.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 242

   [] CEO: Scott McClendon

   [] Stock symbol: OVRL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Overland Data designs, develops, manufactures, markets and supports magnetic
tape data storage systems used by businesses for backup and data interchange
functions.

   PMR

   501 Washington St., 5th Floor

   San Diego, 92103

   (619) 610-4001

   www.pmrcorp.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 406

   [] CEO: Mark Cline

   [] Stock symbol: PMRP

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   PMR is a manager of specialized mental health care programs and disease
management services designed to treat individuals diagnosed with a mental
illness, primarily schizophrenia and bi-polar disorder.

   PICO Holdings

   875 Prospect St., Suite 301

   La Jolla, 92037

   (858) 456-6022

   www.picoholdings.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 145

   [] CEO: John R. Hart

   [] Stock symbol: PICO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   PICO Holdings is a holding company principally engaged in five industry
segments: portfolio investing; property and casualty insurance; surface, water,
geothermal and mineral rights; and medical malpractice liability insurance.

   Pan Pacific Retail Properites

   1631-B South Melrose Drive

   Vista, 92083

   (760) 727-1002

   www.rpc-panpacific.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 88

   [] CEO: Stuart A. Tanz

   [] Stock symbol: PNP

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Pan Pacific Retail Properties is a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust.  It owns, manages, leases, acquires and develops
shopping centers throughout the West.

   Peregrine Systems

   12670 High Bluff Drive

   San Diego, 92130

   (858) 481-5000

   www.peregrine.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 878

   [] CEO: Stephen P. Gardner

   [] Stock symbol: PRGN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Peregrine Systems develops, markets and supports an integrated suite of
applications that automates the management of complex, enterprise-wide
information and infrastructure assets.

   Petco Animal Supplies

   9125 Rehco Road

   San Diego, 92121-2270

   (858) 453-7845

   www.petco.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 10,200

   [] CEO: Brian K. Devine

   [] Stock symbol: PETC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Petco Animal Supplies is a specialty retailer of pet food and supplies.  In
addition, the company provides veterinary services, obedience training and
grooming services.

   Planet Polymer Technologies

   9985 Business Park Ave., Suite A

   San Diego, 92131

   (858) 549-5130

   www.planetpolymer.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 9

   [] CEO: Robert J. Petcavich

   [] Stock symbol: POLY

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Planet Polymer Technologies is a specialty chemical company that develops,
manufactures and markets degradable and recycled polymer materials.

   Previo

   12636 High Bluff Drive, 4th Floor

   San Diego, 92130-2093

   (858) 794-4300

   www.stac.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 111

   [] CEO: John Ticer

   [] Stock symbol: PRVO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Previo designs, develops, markets and supports high-performance business
systems recovery software.

   Price Enterprises

   4649 Morena Blvd.

   San Diego, 92117

   (858) 581-4530

   www.peireit.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 45

   [] CEO: Jack McGrory

   [] Stock symbol: PREN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Price Enterprises acquires, develops, operates, manages and leases real
property.  The company's portfolio is mainly comprised of commericial rental
properties including shopping centers.

   PriceSmart

   4649 Morena Blvd.

   San Diego, 92117

   (858) 581-4530

   www.pricesmart.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 145

   [] CEO: Gilbert A. Partida

   [] Stock symbol: PSMT

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   PriceSmart owns and manages international merchandising businesses that own
and license membership stores using the trade name PriceSmart and, in certain
markets, PriceCostco.

   Qualcomm

   5775 Morehouse Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 587-1121

   www.qualcomm.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 9,700

   [] CEO: Irwin Mark Jacobs

   [] Stock symbol: QCOM

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Qualcomm develops, manufactures, markets, licenses and operates advanced
communications systems and products based on digital wireless technology.

   Quidel

   10165 McKellar Court

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 552-1100

   www.quidel.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 333

   [] CEO: Andre de Bruin

   [] Stock symbol: QDEL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Quidel discovers, develops, manufactures and markets rapid immunodiagnostic
products for point-of-care detection of medical conditions and illnesses.

   RF Industries

   7610 Miramar Road Bldg. 6000

   San Diego, 92126-4202

   (858) 549-6340

   www.rfindustries.com

   [] Worldwide employees: N.A.

   [] CEO: Howard F. Hill

   [] Stock symbol: RFIL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   RF Industries, through its RF Connector Division, is engaged in the design,
manufacture and distribution of coaxial connectors used in radio communication
applications as well as in computers, test instruments, PC LANs and antenna
devices.

   Realty Income

   220 West Crest St.

   Escondido, 92025

   (760) 741-2111

   [] Worldwide employees: 44

   [] CEO: Thomas Lewis

   [] Stock symbol: O

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Realty Income is engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of
long-term triple-net lease properties.

   Remec

   9404 Chesapeake Drive

   San Diego, 92123

   (858) 560-1301

   www.remec.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 2,388

   [] CEO: Ronald E. Ragland

   [] Stock symbol: REMC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Remec designs and manufactures microwave multi-function modules for microwave
transmission systems used in defense applications.

   ResMed

   10121 Carroll Canyon Road

   San Diego, 92131-1109

   (858) 689-2400

   www.resmed.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 477

   [] CEO: Peter C. Farrell

   [] Stock symbol: RMD

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   ResMed designs and distributes medical equipment for treating and diagnosing
sleep disordered breathing.

   Royale Energy

   7676 Hazard Center Drive,

   Suite 1500

   San Diego, 92108

   (619) 881-2800

   www.royl.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 16

   [] CEO: Donald H. Hosmer

   [] Stock symbol: ROYL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Royale Energy's principal lines of business are the acquisition of oil and
gas lease interests and proved reserves, drilling of both exploratory and
development wells, and sales of fractional working interests in wells to be
drilled by the company.

   Rubio's Restaurants

   1902 Wright Place

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 929-8226

   www.rubios.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 2,738

   [] CEO: Ralph Rubio

   [] Stock symbol: RUBO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Rubio's Restaurants operates Baja Grills, mainly in the Southwest, offering a
menu that includes fish tacos.

   Scripps Financial

   5787 Chesapeake Court

   La Jolla, 92123

   (858) 456-2265

   www.scrippsbank.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 275

   [] CEO: Ronald J. Carlson

   [] Stock symbol: SLJ

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Scripps Financial is the parent company of Scripp Bank, which has offices
throughout San Diego County.

   Santa Fe Financial

   11315 Rancho Bernardo Road

   Suite 129

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 673-4722

   [] Worldwide employees: 2

   [] CEO: John V. Winfield

   [] Stock symbol: SFEF

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Santa Fe Financial, through its 64.10wned subsidiary, Portsmouth, has a 49.8
0mited partnership interest in Justice Investors, which owns land improvements
and leaseholds in Holiday Inn.

   Sempra Energy

   101 Ash Street

   San Diego, 92101

   (619) 696-2000

   www.sempra.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 11,248

   [] CEO: Richard D. Farman

   [] Stock symbol: SRE

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Sempra Energy is an energy services company.

   Sequenom

   11555 Sorrento Valley Road

   San Diego , 92121

   (858) 350-0345

   [] Worldwide employees: 116

   [] CEO: Hubert Koster

   [] Stock symbol: SQNM

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Sequenom is in the field of industrial genomics, the large scale commercial
use of DNA variations for improving health, agriculture and livestock.

   SVI Holdings

   12707 Highbluff Drive, Suite 335

   San Diego, 92130

   (858) 551-2365

   [] Worldwide employees: 315

   [] CEO: Barry M. Schecter

   [] Stock symbol: SVI

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   SVI Holdings is engaged in the development and distribution of computer
software training courses and computer software and hardware for retail
establishments.

   Sunrise Medical

   2382 Faraday Ave., Suite 200

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 930-1500

   www.sunrisemedical.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 4,600

   [] CEO: Mike Hammes

   [] Stock symbol: SMD

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Sunrise Medical designs, manufactures and markets products that address the
recovery, rehabilitation and respiratory needs of patients in institutional and
home-care settings.

   Synbiotics

   11011 Via Frontera

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 451-3771

   www.synbiotics.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 133

   [] CEO: Kenneth M. Cohen

   [] Stock symbol: SBIO

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Synbiotics provides rapid diagnostic and laboratory diagnostic products for
the animal health-care industry.

   ThermoTrex

   10455 Pacific Center Court

   San Diego, 92121-4339

   (858) 646-5300

   www.thermo.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 1,800

   [] CEO: Gary S. Weinstein

   [] Stock symbol: TKN

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   ThermoTrex performs advanced technology research and development in the areas
of communications, avionics, X-ray detection, signal processing, and lasers.

   Trega Biosciences

   9880 Campus Point Drive

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 410-6500

   www.trega.com

   [] Worldwide employees: N.A.

   [] CEO: Michael G. Grey

   [] Stock symbol: TRGA

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Trega Biosciences is a drug discovery company that utilizes combinatorial
chemistry and other technologies in the pursuit of small-molecule drug
therapies.

   Titan

   3033 Science Park Road

   San Diego, 92121-1199

   (858) 552-9500

   www.titan.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 3,200

   [] CEO: Gene W. Ray

   [] Stock symbol: TTN

   [] Stock exchange: NYSE

   Titan provides state-of-the-art information technology and electronic systems
and services to commercial and government customers.

   Ubrandit.com

   12626 High Bluff Drive, Suite 200

   San Diego, 92130

   (858) 350-9566

   www.ubrandit.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 12

   [] CEO: Jeff Phillips

   [] Stock symbol: UBI

   [] Stock exchange: Amex

   Ubrandit.com's services allow companies to enchance their sites with various
Web and e-commerce additions.

   Venture Catalyst

   16868 Via Del Campo Court

   Suite 200

   San Diego, 92127

   (858) 385-1000

   www.vencat.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 46

   [] CEO: L. Donald Speer II

   [] Stock symbol: VCAT

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Venture Catalyst, formerly Inland Entertainment, provides consulting services
to start-up and emerging growth companies.

   ViaSat

   6155 El Camino Real

   Carlsbad, 92009

   (760) 438-8099

   www.viasat.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 367

   [] CEO: Mark D. Dankberg

   [] Stock symbol: VSAT

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   ViaSat designs, produces and markets advanced digital satellite
telecommunications and wireless signal processing equipment.

   Vical

   9373 Towne Centre Drive

   Suite 100

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 453-9900

   www.vical.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 119

   [] CEO: Alain B. Schreiber, M.D.

   [] Stock symbol: VICL

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Vical discovers and develops gene-based pharmaceutical products.

   Vista Medical Technologies

   5451 Avenida Encinas, Suite A

   Carlsbad, 92008

   (760) 603-9120

   www.vistamt.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 64

   [] CEO: John R. Lyon

   [] Stock symbol: VMTIC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Vista Medical Technologies develops, manufactures and markets proprietary
visualization and information systems that enable minimally invasive surgical
solutions in cardiothoracic, head, neck and spine and other microsurgical
procedures.

   VistaInfo

   5060 Shoreham Place, Suite 300

   San Diego, 92122

   (858) 450-6100

   www.vistainfo.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 137

   [] CEO: Thomas R. Gay

   [] Stock symbol: VINF

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Vista Information Solutions provides environmental risk information and
address-based hazard and risk classification information to bankers, engineers,
insurance companies and corporations throughout the United States.

   WD-40

   1061 Cudahy Place

   San Diego, 92110

   (619) 275-1400

   www.wd40.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 177

   [] CEO: Garry O. Ridge

   [] Stock symbol: WDFC

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   WD-40 manufactures and markets three multi-purpose lubricant products known
as WD-40, 3-IN-ONE Oil,

   and T.A.L 5.

   Websense

   10240 Sorrento Valley Road

   San Diego, 92121

   (858) 320-8000

   www.websense.com

   [] Worldwide employees: 119

   [] CEO: John Carrington

   [] Stock symbol: WBSN

   [] Stock exchange: NAS

   Websense provides employee Internet management services, including Web
filtering.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 2000

CORRECTION:

    Also, in the corporate capsules list in the same special section, Mitek
Systems is listed as having 36 employees. The company now has 50 employees. The
Union-Tribune regrets the error.

GRAPHIC: 3 PICS; 1. JERRY RIFE / Union-Tribune 2. NANCEE LEWIS / Union-Tribune
3. DON KOHLBAUER / Union-Tribune; 1. Richard Rubio is vice president of real
estate development for Rubio's Restaurants. In 1999, Rubio's opened 31 eateries.
More are on the way. 2. Eddie Delgado, left, and Dave Seymour of Health Sign
Nationwide, move a 10 foot "E" onto scaffolding in front of the Sempra Energy
building in downtown San Diego. 3. Employees at a Charlotte Russe warehouse
attach sensors to clothes before shipping the outfits to stores. (S.D. INC.-14)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002


                             541 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              May 23, 2000 Tuesday

SECTION: SPECIAL: SAN DIEGO INC.; Pg. S.D. INC.-13

LENGTH: 6187 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Capsules;
A selection of companies trades on NYSE, AMEX and NASDAQ

BODY:

   Advanced Marketing Services 5880 Oberlin Drive, Suite 400 San Diego, 92121
(858) 457-2500 www.admsweb.com [] Worldwide employees: 491 [] CEO: Michael M.
Nicita [] Stock symbol: ADMS [] Stock exchange: NAS Advanced Marketing Services
is a distributor of general interest books to membership warehouse clubs and
certain specialty retailers. Advanced Tissue Sciences 10933 North Torrey Pines
Road La Jolla, 92037 (858) 713-7300 www.advancedtissue.com [] Worldwide
employees: 207 [] CEO: Arthur J. Benvenuto [] Stock symbol: ATIS [] Stock
exchange: NAS Advanced Tissue Sciences is a tissue-engineering company engaged
in the development of living human tissue products for therapeutic applications.
Alaris Medical 10221 Wateridge Circle San Diego, 92121 (858) 458-7000
www.alarismed.com [] Worldwide employees: 2,919 [] CEO: David Schlotterbeck []
Stock symbol: AMI [] Stock exchange: Amex Advanced Medical, through its major
operating subsidiary, is a provider of infusion systems and related technologies
to the health-care industry. Aldila 12140 Community Road Poway, 92064 (858)
513-1801 www.aldila.com [] Worldwide employees: 920 [] CEO: Pete Mathewson []
Stock symbol: ALDA [] Stock exchange: NAS Aldila is a designer and manufacturer
of high-quality graphite golf shafts. Alliance Pharmaceutical 3040 Science Park
Road San Diego, 92121 (858) 558-4300 www.allp.com

   American Residential Investment Trust 445 Marine View Ave., Suite 230 Del
Mar, 92014 (858) 350-5000 www.amerreit.com [] Worldwide employees: 14 [] CEO:
John M. Robbins [] Stock symbol: INV [] Stock exchange: NYSE American
Residential Investment Trust is a real estate investment trust that invests in
residential adjustable-rate mortgage securities and mortgage loans. American
Technology 13114 Evening Creek Drive South San Diego, 92128 (858) 679-2114
www.atcsd.com [] Worldwide employees: 18 [] CEO: Cornelius Brosnan [] Stock
symbol: ATCO [] Stock exchange: NAS American Technology markets radios made by
other companies and is developing proprietary sound technologies, including its
HyperSonic technology. Amistar 237 Via Vera Cruz San Marcos, 92069-2617 (760)
471-1700 www.amistar.com [] Worldwide employees: 134 [] CEO: Stuart C. Baker []
Stock symbol: AMTA [] Stock exchange: NAS Amistar designs, develops,
manufactures, markets and services a variety of automatic equipment for
assembling electronic components on printed circuit boards. Amylin
Pharmaceuticals 9373 Towne Centre Drive Suite 250 San Diego, 92121 (858)
552-2200 www.amylin.com [] Worldwide employees: 60 [] CEO: Joseph C. Cook, Jr.
[] Stock symbol: AMLN [] Stock exchange: NAS Amylin Pharmaceuticals focuses on
developing therapeutics for treating people with diabetes and other metabolic
disorders. Anacomp 12365 Crosthwaite Circle Poway, 92064 (858) 679-9797
www.anacomp.com [] Worldwide employees: 2,500 [] CEO: Ralph Koehrer [] Stock
symbol: ANCO [] Stock exchange: NAS Anacomp is a provider of products and
services that enable organizations to manage their documents. Applied Micro
Circuits 6290 Sequence Drive San Diego, 92121 (858) 450-9333 www.amcc.com []
Worldwide employees: 361 [] CEO: David M. Rickey [] Stock symbol: AMCC [] Stock
exchange: NAS Advanced Micro Circuits designs, develops, manufactures and
markets high-performance, high-bandwidth silicon solutions for communications
infrastructure. Ashworth 2791 Loker Avenue West Carlsbad, 92008 (760) 438-6610
www.ashworthinc.com [] Worldwide employees: 466 [] CEO: Randall L. Herrel, Sr.
[] Stock symbol: ASHW [] Stock exchange: NAS Ashworth markets and distributes a
full line of sports apparel, headwear and shoes under the Ashworth label. Aurora
Biosciences 11010 Torreyana Road San Diego, 92121 (858) 452-5000
www.aurorabio.com [] Worldwide employees: 197 [] CEO: Stuart Collinson [] Stock
symbol: ABSC [] Stock exchange: NAS Aurora Biosciences designs, develops and
sells proprietary drug discovery systems, services and technologies to
accelerate the discovery of medicines by the pharmaceutical and
biopharmaceutical industries. Avanir Pharmaceuticals 9393 Towne Centre Drive
Suite 200 San Diego, 92121 (858) 558-0364 www.avanir.com [] Worldwide employees:
15 [] CEO: Gerald Yakatan [] Stock symbol: AVN [] Stock exchange: Amex Avanir
Pharmaceuticals is a development stage company organized to discover, develop
and market therapeutic products to treat disease. Biosite Diagnostic 11030
Roselle St. San Diego, 92121 (858) 455-4808 www.biosite.com [] Worldwide
employees: 303 [] CEO: Kim D. Blickenstaff [] Stock symbol: BSTE [] Stock
exchange: NAS Biosite Diagnostic develops, manufactures and markets diagnostic
products to improve the quality of patient care and simplify the practice of
laboratory medicine. Burnham Pacific Properties 110 W. A St., Suite 900 San
Diego, 92101 (619) 652-4700 www.burnhampacific.com [] Worldwide employees: 114
[] CEO: J. David Martin [] Stock symbol: BPP [] Stock exchange: NYSE Burnham
Pacific Properties is a fully-integrated real estate operating company that
acquires, rehabilitates, develops and manages retail shopping centers on the
West Coast. Cohu 5755 Kearny Villa Road San Diego, 92123-1170 (858) 277-6700
www.cohu.com [] Worldwide employees: 1,300 [] CEO: Charles A. Schwan [] Stock
symbol: COHU [] Stock exchange: NAS Cohu's semiconductor test handling equipment
is used in the final test of integrated circuits.

   A television and other equipment segment includes electronic imaging,
surveillance detection and microwave communication products. Charlotte Russe
Holding 4645 Morena Blvd. San Diego, 92117 (858) 587-1500 [] Worldwide
employees: 745 [] CEO: Bernard Zeichner [] Stock symbol: CHIC [] Stock exchange:
NAS Charlotte Russe sells apparel and accessories, primarily to women between 15
and 35. The company operates Charlotte Russe and Rampage stores in malls.
CinemaStar Luxury Theaters 12230 El Camino Real, Suite 320 San Diego, 92130
(858) 509-2777 www.cinemastar.com [] Worldwide employees: 62 [] CEO: Jack R.
Crosby [] Stock symbol: LUXY [] Stock exchange: NAS CinemaStar Luxury Theaters
develops, owns and operates multi-screen, primarily first-run movie theaters in
Southern California. CardioDynamics International 6175 Nancy Ridge Drive, Suite
300 San Diego, 92121 (619) 535-0202 www.cardiodynamics.com [] Worldwide
employees: 75 [] CEO: Michael K. Perry [] Stock symbol: CDIC [] Stock exchange:
NAS CardioDynamics International develops, manufactures and markets heart
monitoring devices that provide data on blood flow and heart function. Callaway
Golf 2285 Rutherford Road Carlsbad, 92008-8815 (760) 931-1771
www.callawaygolf.com [] Worldwide employees: 2,526 [] CEO: Ely Callaway [] Stock
symbol: ELY [] Stock exchange: NYSE Callaway Golf designs, manufactures and
markets innovative golf clubs. Collateral Therapeutics 9360 Towne Centre Drive
San Diego, 92121 (858) 794-3400 www.collateralthx.com [] Worldwide employees: 44
[] CEO: Jack W. Reich, Ph.D. [] Stock symbol: CLTX [] Stock exchange: NAS
Collateral Therapeutics focuses on the discovery, development and
commercialization of non-surgical gene therapy products for the treatment of
cardiovascular diseases. Community Bancorp 130 W. Fallbrook St. Fallbrook, 92028
(760) 723-8811 www.communitybancorp.net [] Worldwide employees: 104 [] CEO:
Thomas Swanson [] Stock symbol: CMBC [] Stock exchange: NAS Community Bancorp is
the parent company of Fallbrook National Bank. Offices are maintained in San
Diego, Orange and Los Angeles counties. Corvas International 3030 Science Park
Road San Diego, 92121 (858) 455-9800 www.corvas.com [] Worldwide employees: 73
[] CEO: Randall E. Woods [] Stock symbol: CVAS [] Stock exchange: NAS Corvas
International is a biopharmaceutical firm engaged in the design and development
of therapeutic agents in the fields of blood clot formation and inflammation and
other diseases. Creative Host Services 6335 Ferris Square, Suite G San Diego,
92121 (858) 587-7300 [] Worldwide employees: 547 [] CEO: Sayed Ali [] Stock
symbol: CHST [] Stock exchange: NAS Creative Host Services is in the business of
acquiring and operating food, beverage and other concessions at airports
throughout the United States. Cubic 9333 Balboa Ave. San Diego, 92123-5587 (858)
277-6780 www.cubic.com [] Worldwide employees: 3,600 [] CEO: W.J. Zable [] Stock
symbol: CUB [] Stock exchange: Amex Cubic designs, develops, and manufactures
electronic products. Cymer 16750 Via Del Campo Court San Diego, 92127 (858)
385-7300 www.cymer.com [] Worldwide employees: 767 [] CEO: Dr. Robert P. Akins
[] Stock symbol: CYMI [] Stock exchange: NAS Cymer provides excimer laser
illumination sources for use in deep ultraviolet photolithography systems for
the semiconductor manufacturing market. Cypress Biosciences 4350 Executive
Drive, Suite 325 San Diego, 92121 (858) 452-2323 www.cypressbio.com [] Worldwide
employees: 56 [] CEO: Jay D. Kranzler, M.D./Ph.D. [] Stock symbol: CYPB [] Stock
exchange: NAS Cypress Bioscience researches, develops, manufactures and markets
medical devices and therapeutics for the treatment of immune disorders and
develops therapeutic agents for the treatment of blood platelet disorders. Daou
Systems 5120 Shoreham Place San Diego, 92122 (8589) 452-2221 www.daou.com []
Worldwide employees: 812 [] CEO: Larry Grandia [] Stock symbol: DAOU [] Stock
exchange: NAS Daou designs, implements, supports and manages advanced computer
network systems for hospitals, integrated health-care delivery networks and
other health-care provider organizations. Datron Systems 3030 Enterprise Court
Vista, 92083 (760) 734-5454 www.dtsi.com [] Worldwide employees: 331 [] CEO:
David A. Derby [] Stock symbol: DTSI [] Stock exchange: NAS Datron Systems
provides specialized satellite communication and image processing systems and
radio and other wireless communication products and services. Document Sciences
6339 Paseo Del Lago Carlsbad, 92009 (760) 602-1400 www.docscience.com []
Worldwide employees: 140 [] CEO: Barton Faber [] Stock symbol: DOCX [] In Stock
exchange: NAS Document Sciences Corporation develops, markets and supports a
family of document automation software products and services used in high-volume
electronic publishing applications. Diversa 10665 Sorrento Valley Road San
Diego, 92121 (858) 623-5106 www.diversa.com [] Worldwide employees: 102 [] CEO:
Jay M. Short [] Stock symbol: DVSA [] Stock exchange: NAS Diversa discovers and
develops novel enzymes and other biologically active compounds from diverse
environmental sources. Dot Hill Systems 6305 El Camino Real Carlsbad, 92009
(760) 931-5500 www.boxhill.com [] Worldwide employees: 329 [] CEO: Philip Black
and James L. Lambert [] Stock symbol: HIL [] Stock exchange: NYSE Dot Hill
Systems designs, manufactures, markets and supports data storage systems for the
open systems computing environment. Dura Pharmaceuticals 7475 Lusk Blvd. San
Diego, 92121 (858) 457-2553 www.durapharm.com [] Worldwide employees: 511 []
CEO: Cam L. Garner [] Stock symbol: DURA [] Stock exchange: NAS Dura
Pharmaceuticals is a specialty respiratory pharmaceutical and pulmonary drug
delivery company. Eco Soil Systems 10740 Thornmint Road San Diego, 92127 (858)
675-1660 www.ecosoil.com [] Worldwide employees: 244 [] CEO: William B. Adams []
Stock symbol: ESSI [] Stock exchange: NAS Eco Soil Systems develops, markets and
sells proprietary biological and traditional chemical products for a variety of
turf and crop applications in the golf and agricultural industries. Encad 6059
Cornerstone Court West San Diego, 92121 (858) 452-0882 www.encad.com []
Worldwide employees: 431 [] CEO: David Purcell [] Stock symbol: ENCD [] Stock
exchange: NAS Encad designs, develops, manufactures and markets wide-format,
color inkjet printer systems designed to increase productivity in computer
applications requiring quality printed output. Epimmune 5820 Nancy Ridge Drive
San Diego, 92121 (858) 860-2500 [] Worldwide employees: 51 [] CEO: Deborah
Schueren [] Stock symbol: EPMN [] Stock exchange: NAS Epimmune discovers,
designs and develops immunotherapeutics, divided into three programs: theradigm
vaccine (infectious diseases and cancers); inflammation (antiflammatory cell
adhesion inhibitors); and glycotechnology (synthesis of bioactive complex
carbohydrates). Excel Legacy 17140 Bernardo Center Drive Suite 30 San Diego,
92128 (858) 485-9400 [] Worldwide employees: N.A. [] CEO: Gary B. Sabin [] Stock
symbol: XLG [] Stock exchange: Amex Excel Legacy pursues real estate
opportunities, including those not restricted by the federal income tax laws
governing REITs. Factory 2-U Stores 4000 Ruffin Road San Diego, 92123 (858)
627-1800 www.family-bargain.com [] Worldwide employees: 4,212 [] CEO: Mike
Searles [] Stock symbol: FTUS [] Stock exchange: NAS Factory 2-U Stores operates
Factory 2-U and Family Bargain Center off-price retail apparel and home goods
stores. Fotoball USA 3738 Ruffin Road San Diego, 92123 (858) 467-9900
www.fotoball.com [] Worldwide employees: 86 [] CEO: Michael Favish [] Stock
symbol: FUSA [] Stock exchange: NAS Fotoball USA designs, develops, manufactures
and markets custom sports products that are sold in the licensed product retail
market through independent manufacturers' representatives. Garden Fresh
Restaurant 17180 Bernardo Center Drive San Diego, 92128 (858) 675-1600 []
Worldwide employees: 4,600 [] CEO: Michael P. Mack [] Stock symbol: LTUS []
Stock exchange: NAS Garden Fresh Restaurant operates 51 salad buffet restaurants
under the names Souplantation and Sweet Tomatoes. Gateway 4545 Towne Centre
Court San Diego, 92121 (858) 799-3401 www.gateway.com [] Worldwide employees:
21,000 [] CEO: Jeffrey Weitzen [] Stock symbol: GTW [] Stock exchange: NYSE
Gateway 2000 develops, markets, manufactures and supports a broad line of
desktop and portable PC's and PC-related products. Genetronics Biomedical 11199
Sorrento Valley Road San Diego, 92121 (619) 597-6006 www.genetronics.com []
Worldwide employees: N.A. [] CEO: Martin Nash [] Stock symbol: GEB [] Stock
exchange: Amex Genetronics Biomedical develops, manufactures and markets
electroporation instrumentation and accessories. Glacier Water Services 2261
Cosmos Court Carlsbad, 92009 (760) 930-2420 [] Worldwide employees: 335 [] CEO:
Jerry Gordon [] Stock symbol: HOO [] Stock exchange: Amex Glacier Water Services
provides drinking water dispensed to consumers through self-service vending
machines designed, developed and assembled by Glacier. HNC Software 5935
Cornerstone Court West San Diego, 92121-3728 (858) 799-8000 www.hncs.com []
Worldwide employees: 1,217 [] CEO: John Mutch [] Stock symbol: HNCS [] Stock
exchange: NAS HNC Software develops, markets, and supports predictive software
solutions for service industries. Hollis-Eden Pharmaceuticals 9333 Genesee Ave.,
Suite 200 San Diego, 92121 (858) 587-9333 www.holliseden.com [] Worldwide
employees: 25 [] CEO: Richard Hollis [] Stock symbol: HEPH [] Stock exchange:
NAS Hollis-Eden is a bio-pharmaceutical engaged in the development and
commercialization of therapeutic and preventative pharmaceutical agents for the
treatment of infectious diseases and disorders. ICH 9255 Towne Centre Drive
Suite 600 San Diego, 92121 (619) 587-8533 [] Worldwide employees: 7,200 [] CEO:
James R. Arabia [] Stock symbol: IH []Stock exchange: Amex ICH operates a chain
of fast-food restaurants in Texas, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Florida, as a
franchisee of Arby's. IDEC Pharmaceuticals 3030 Callan Road San Diego, 92121
(858) 431-8500 www.idecpharm.com [] Worldwide employees: 407 [] CEO: William H.
Rastetter, M.D. [] Stock symbol: IDPH []Stock exchange: NAS IDEC Pharmaceuticals
is primarily engaged in the commercialization and research and development of
therapies for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. ITLA Capital 888 Prospect
St. La Jolla, 92037 (858) 551-0511 www.imperialthrift.com [] Worldwide
employees: 132 [] CEO: George W. Haligowski [] Stock symbol: ITLA []Stock
exchange: NAS ITLA Capital, a thrift and loan company, provides loans secured by
income producing properties and other lending/deposit services.

   ITLA has 10 offices and one loan production office. ImageWare Systems 10883
Thornmint Road San Diego, 92127 (858) 673-8600 www.iwsinc.com [] Worldwide
employees: 52 [] CEO: Jim Miller [] Stock symbol: IW [] Stock exchange: Amex
ImageWare Systems' products allow sharing of criminal-history data among law
enforcement and other agencies. Immune Response 5935 Darwin Court Carlsbad,
92008 (760) 431-7080 www.imnr.com [] Worldwide employees: 103 [] CEO: Dennis J.
Carlo, Ph.D. [] Stock symbol: IMNR [] Stock exchange: NAS Immune Response is a
biopharmaceutical company engaged in the development of proprietary products in
the areas of HIV, autoimmmune disease, gene therapy and cancer. Innovative
Medical Services 1725 Gillespie Way El Cajon, 92020 (619) 596-8600
www.imspure.com [] Worldwide employees: 23 [] CEO: Michael L. Krall [] Stock
symbol: PURE [] Stock exchange: NAS Innovative Medical Services is in the
business of manufacturing and marketing a water purification, measuring and
dispensing apparatus used in pharmacies to reconstitute oral antibiotic
suspensions. Invitrogen 1600 Faraday Ave. Carlsbad, 92008 (760) 603-7200
www.invitrogen.com [] Worldwide employees: 376 [] CEO: Lyle C. Turner [] Stock
symbol: IVGN [] Stock exchange: NAS Invitrogen develops, manufactures, and sells
research kits, as well as provides research services to corporate, academic, and
government entities. Products have applications in cloning, gene expression and
gene analysis techniques, as well as other molecular biology activities and
gene-based drug discovery. Isis Pharmaceuticals 2292 Faraday Ave. Carlsbad,
92008 (760) 931-9200 www.isip.com [] Worldwide employees: 352 [] CEO: Stanley T.
Crooke M.D., Ph.D. [] Stock symbol: ISIP [] Stock exchange: NAS Isis
Pharmaceuticals is a leader in the discovery and development of drugs based on
antisense technology. JMAR Industries 3956 Sorrento Valley Blvd. San Diego,
92121 (858) 535-1706 www.jmar.com [] Worldwide employees: 125 [] CEO: John S.
Martinez, Ph.D. [] Stock symbol: JMAR [] Stock exchange: NAS JMAR Industries
develops, manufactures and markets precision measurement, process control and
manufacturing systems and laser and semiconductor products for the
microelectronics and medical industries. JNI 9775 Towne Centre Drive San Diego,
92121 (858) 535-3121 www.jni.com [] Worldwide employees: 127 [] CEO: Terry M.
Flanagan [] Stock symbol: JNIC [] Stock exchange: NAS JNI supplies computer
hardware and software products for so-called fiber channel technology, which
connects servers and data storage devices to form storage area networks. Jack In
The Box 9330 Balboa Ave. San Diego, 92123 (858) 571-2121 www.foodmaker.com []
Worldwide employees: 37,800 [] CEO: Robert J. Nugent [] Stock symbol: JBX []
Stock exchange: NYSE Foodmaker owns, operates and franchises Jack In The Box, a
chain of fast-food restaurants. Jenny Craig 11355 North Torrey Pines Road La
Jolla, 92037 (619) 812-7000 www.jennycraig.com [] Worldwide employees: 3,520 []
CEO: Sidney Craig [] Stock symbol: JC [] Stock exchange: NYSE Jenny Craig
provides weight management programs through a chain of company-owned and
franchised centers. La Jolla Pharmaceutical 6455 Nancy Ridge Drive San Diego,
92121 (858) 452-6600 www.ljpc.com [] Worldwide employees: 109 [] CEO: Steven B.
Engle [] Stock symbol: LJPC [] Stock exchange: NAS La Jolla Pharmaceutical is a
biopharmaceutical company focused on the research and development of
therapeutics for the treatment of certain life-threatening antibody-medicated
diseases. Lancer Orthodontics 253 Pawnee Street San Marcos, 92069-2437 (760)
744-8756 www.lancerortho.com [] Worldwide employees: 43 [] CEO: Doug Miller []
Stock symbol: LANZ [] Stock exchange: NAS Lancer Orthodontics manufactures and
markets orthodontic products. Ligand Pharmaceuticals 10275 Science Center Drive
San Diego, 92121 (858) 550-7500 www.ligand.com [] Worldwide employees: 418 []
CEO: David E. Robinson [] Stock symbol: LGND [] Stock exchange: NAS Ligand
Pharmaceuticals is engaged in the discovery and development of drugs that
regulate hormone activated intracellular receptors. Maxim Pharmaceuticals 8899
University Center Lane Suite 400 San Diego, 92122 (858) 453-4040 www.maxim.com
[] Worldwide employees: 52 [] CEO: Larry G. Stambaugh [] Stock symbol: MAXM []
Stock exchange: NAS Maxim Pharmaceuticals develops therapeutics for the
treatment of cancer and infectious diseases. Leap Wireless International 10307
Pacific Center Court San Diego, 92121 (858) 882-6000 www.leapwireless.com []
Worldwide employees: 90 [] CEO: Harvey P. White [] Stock symbol: LWIN [] Stock
exchange: NAS Leap Wireless International manages, supports, operates and
otherwise participates in Code Division Multiple Access-based wireless
telecommunications businesses and ventures. MP3.com 4790 Eastgate Mall San
Diego, 92121 (858) 623-7000 www.mp3.com [] Worldwide employees: 284 [] CEO:
Michael L. Robertson [] Stock symbol: MPPP [] Stock exchange: NAS MP3.com
promotes and distributes music using the Internet.

   The company enables customers to access a music catalog and search, sample
and download music free of chage. Maxwell Technologies 9275 Sky Park Court San
Diego, 92123 (858) 277-6745 www.maxwell.com [] Worldwide employees: 1,093 []
CEO: Kenneth F. Potashner [] Stock symbol: MXWL [] Stock exchange: NAS Maxwell
Technologies develops, manufactures and markets power conversion products,
purification systems, EMI filters, industrial computers and subsystems and
defense products for commercial and government markets. Metrika Systems 5788
Pacific Center Blvd. San Diego, 92121 (858) 450-9649 www.thermo.com [] Worldwide
employees: 500 [] CEO: Ernesto A. Corte [] Stock symbol: MKA [] Stock exchange:
Amex Metrika Systems develops, manufactures, and markets on-line process
optimization systems that employ high-speed measurement technologies for
applications in raw materials analysis and finished materials quality control.
Mitek Systems 10070 Carroll Canyon Road San Diego, 92131 (858) 635-5900
www.miteksys.com [] Worldwide employees: 36 [] CEO: John M. Thornton [] Stock
symbol: MITK [] Stock exchange: NAS Mitek Systems designs, manufactures and
markets advanced character recognition products for processing applications,
such as check and remittance processing and order entry. NTN Communications 5966
La Place Court Carlsbad, 92008 (760) 438-7400 www.ntn.com [] Worldwide
employees: 124 [] CEO: Stanley B. Kinsey [] Stock symbol: NTN [] Stock exchange:
Amex NTN Communications develops, produces and distributes individual and
multi-player interactive programs for a variety of media platforms. Nanogen
10398 Pacific Center Court San Diego, 92121 (858) 546-7700 www.nanogen.com []
Worldwide employees: 142 [] CEO: Howard C. Birndorf [] Stock symbol: NGEN []
Stock exchange: NAS Nanogen integrates advanced microelectronics and molecular
biology into platform technology with broad commercial applications in the
fields of medical diagnostics, biomedical research, genomics, genetic testing
and drug discovery. Natural Alternatives International 1185 Linda Vista Drive
San Marcos, 92069 (760) 744-7340 www.nai-online.com [] Worldwide employees: 121
[] CEO: Mark A. Le Doux [] Stock symbol: NAII [] Stock exchange: NAS Natural
Alternatives International formulates and produces vitamins, micronutrients and
related nutritional supplements and provides private-label products for
commercial accounts. Neurocrine Biosciences 10555 Science Center Drive San
Diego, 92121 (858) 658-7600 www.neurocrine.com [] Worldwide employees: 142 []
CEO: Gary A. Lyons [] Stock symbol: NBIX [] Stock exchange: NAS Neurocrine
Biosciences, a neuroimmunology company, is focused on the discovery and
development of therapeutics to treat diseases and disorders of the central
nervous and immune systems. Newgen Results 12680 High Bluff Drive, Suite 300 San
Diego, 92130 (858) 481-7545 www.ngresults.com [] Worldwide employees: 364 []
CEO: Gerald Benowitz [] Stock symbol: NWGN [] Stock exchange: NAS Newgen Results
provides auto dealerships with sevices designed to improve customer contact.
Nitches 10280 Camino Santa Fe San Diego, 92121 (619) 625-2633 www.nitches.com []
Worldwide employees: 42 [] CEO: Steven P. Wyandt [] Stock symbol: NICH [] Stock
exchange: NAS Nitches is an importer and wholesale distributor of women's woven
cotton sportswear. On-Point Technology Systems 1370 W. San Marcos Blvd., Suite
100 San Marcos, 92069 (760) 510-4900 www.onpt.com [] Worldwide employees: 106 []
CEO: Frederick Sandvick [] Stock symbol: ONPTE [] Stock exchange: NAS On-Point
Technology Systems designs, manufactures and services vending terminals for the
sale and leasing of instant-winner lottery tickets and prepaid telephone calling
cards. Ontro 13250 Gregg St. Poway, 92064 (619) 486-7200 www.ontro.com []
Worldwide employees: 20 [] CEO: James A. Scudder [] Stock symbol: ONTR [] Stock
exchange: NAS Ontro is engaged in the research and development of integrated
thermal containers. Overland Data 8975 Balboa Ave. San Diego, 92123-1599 (858)
571-5555 www.overlanddata.com [] Worldwide employees: 242 [] CEO: Scott
McClendon [] Stock symbol: OVRL [] Stock exchange: NAS Overland Data designs,
develops, manufactures, markets and supports magnetic tape data storage systems
used by businesses for backup and data interchange functions. PMR 501 Washington
St., 5th Floor San Diego, 92103 (619) 610-4001 www.pmrcorp.com [] Worldwide
employees: 406 [] CEO: Mark Cline [] Stock symbol: PMRP [] Stock exchange: NAS
PMR is a manager of specialized mental health care programs and disease
management services designed to treat individuals diagnosed with a mental
illness, primarily schizophrenia and bi-polar disorder. PICO Holdings 875
Prospect St., Suite 301 La Jolla, 92037 (858) 456-6022 www.picoholdings.com []
Worldwide employees: 145 [] CEO: John R. Hart [] Stock symbol: PICO [] Stock
exchange: NAS PICO Holdings is a holding company principally engaged in five
industry segments: portfolio investing; property and casualty insurance;
surface, water, geothermal and mineral rights; and medical malpractice liability
insurance. Pan Pacific Retail Properites 1631-B South Melrose Drive Vista, 92083
(760) 727-1002 www.rpc-panpacific.com [] Worldwide employees: 88 [] CEO: Stuart
A. Tanz [] Stock symbol: PNP [] Stock exchange: NYSE Pan Pacific Retail
Properties is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust.

   It owns, manages, leases, acquires and develops shopping centers throughout
the West. Peregrine Systems 12670 High Bluff Drive San Diego, 92130 (858)
481-5000 www.peregrine.com [] Worldwide employees: 878 [] CEO: Stephen P.
Gardner [] Stock symbol: PRGN [] Stock exchange: NAS Peregrine Systems develops,
markets and supports an integrated suite of applications that automates the
management of complex, enterprise-wide information and infrastructure assets.
Petco Animal Supplies 9125 Rehco Road San Diego, 92121-2270 (858) 453-7845
www.petco.com [] Worldwide employees: 10,200 [] CEO: Brian K. Devine [] Stock
symbol: PETC [] Stock exchange: NAS Petco Animal Supplies is a specialty
retailer of pet food and supplies.

   In addition, the company provides veterinary services, obedience training and
grooming services. Planet Polymer Technologies 9985 Business Park Ave., Suite A
San Diego, 92131 (858) 549-5130 www.planetpolymer.com [] Worldwide employees: 9
[] CEO: Robert J. Petcavich [] Stock symbol: POLY [] Stock exchange: NAS Planet
Polymer Technologies is a specialty chemical company that develops, manufactures
and markets degradable and recycled polymer materials. Previo 12636 High Bluff
Drive, 4th Floor San Diego, 92130-2093 (858) 794-4300 www.stac.com [] Worldwide
employees: 111 [] CEO: John Ticer [] Stock symbol: PRVO [] Stock exchange: NAS
Previo designs, develops, markets and supports high-performance business systems
recovery software. Price Enterprises 4649 Morena Blvd. San Diego, 92117 (858)
581-4530 www.peireit.com [] Worldwide employees: 45 [] CEO: Jack McGrory []
Stock symbol: PREN [] Stock exchange: NAS Price Enterprises acquires, develops,
operates, manages and leases real property.

   The company's portfolio is mainly comprised of commericial rental properties
including shopping centers. PriceSmart 4649 Morena Blvd. San Diego, 92117 (858)
581-4530 www.pricesmart.com [] Worldwide employees: 145 [] CEO: Gilbert A.
Partida [] Stock symbol: PSMT [] Stock exchange: NAS PriceSmart owns and manages
international merchandising businesses that own and license membership stores
using the trade name PriceSmart and, in certain markets, PriceCostco. Qualcomm
5775 Morehouse Drive San Diego, 92121 (858) 587-1121 www.qualcomm.com []
Worldwide employees: 9,700 [] CEO: Irwin Mark Jacobs [] Stock symbol: QCOM []
Stock exchange: NAS Qualcomm develops, manufactures, markets, licenses and
operates advanced communications systems and products based on digital wireless
technology. Quidel 10165 McKellar Court San Diego, 92121 (858) 552-1100
www.quidel.com [] Worldwide employees: 333 [] CEO: Andre de Bruin [] Stock
symbol: QDEL [] Stock exchange: NAS Quidel discovers, develops, manufactures and
markets rapid immunodiagnostic products for point-of-care detection of medical
conditions and illnesses. RF Industries 7610 Miramar Road Bldg. 6000 San Diego,
92126-4202 (858) 549-6340 www.rfindustries.com [] Worldwide employees: N.A. []
CEO: Howard F. Hill [] Stock symbol: RFIL [] Stock exchange: NAS RF Industries,
through its RF Connector Division, is engaged in the design, manufacture and
distribution of coaxial connectors used in radio communication applications as
well as in computers, test instruments, PC LANs and antenna devices. Realty
Income 220 West Crest St. Escondido, 92025 (760) 741-2111 [] Worldwide
employees: 44 [] CEO: Thomas Lewis [] Stock symbol: O [] Stock exchange: NYSE
Realty Income is engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of
long-term triple-net lease properties. Remec 9404 Chesapeake Drive San Diego,
92123 (858) 560-1301 www.remec.com [] Worldwide employees: 2,388 [] CEO: Ronald
E. Ragland [] Stock symbol: REMC [] Stock exchange: NAS Remec designs and
manufactures microwave multi-function modules for microwave transmission systems
used in defense applications. ResMed 10121 Carroll Canyon Road San Diego,
92131-1109 (858) 689-2400 www.resmed.com [] Worldwide employees: 477 [] CEO:
Peter C. Farrell [] Stock symbol: RMD [] Stock exchange: NYSE ResMed designs and
distributes medical equipment for treating and diagnosing sleep disordered
breathing. Royale Energy 7676 Hazard Center Drive, Suite 1500 San Diego, 92108
(619) 881-2800 www.royl.com [] Worldwide employees: 16 [] CEO: Donald H. Hosmer
[] Stock symbol: ROYL [] Stock exchange: NAS Royale Energy's principal lines of
business are the acquisition of oil and gas lease interests and proved reserves,
drilling of both exploratory and development wells, and sales of fractional
working interests in wells to be drilled by the company. Rubio's Restaurants
1902 Wright Place Carlsbad, 92008 (760) 929-8226 www.rubios.com [] Worldwide
employees: 2,738 [] CEO: Ralph Rubio [] Stock symbol: RUBO [] Stock exchange:
NAS Rubio's Restaurants operates Baja Grills, mainly in the Southwest, offering
a menu that includes fish tacos. Scripps Financial 5787 Chesapeake Court La
Jolla, 92123 (858) 456-2265 www.scrippsbank.com [] Worldwide employees: 275 []
CEO: Ronald J. Carlson [] Stock symbol: SLJ [] Stock exchange: Amex Scripps
Financial is the parent company of Scripp Bank, which has offices throughout San
Diego County. Santa Fe Financial 11315 Rancho Bernardo Road Suite 129 San Diego,
92127 (858) 673-4722 [] Worldwide employees: 2 [] CEO: John V. Winfield [] Stock
symbol: SFEF [] Stock exchange: NAS Santa Fe Financial, through its 64.10wned
subsidiary, Portsmouth, has a 49.8 0mited partnership interest in Justice
Investors, which owns land improvements and leaseholds in Holiday Inn. Sempra
Energy 101 Ash Street San Diego, 92101 (619) 696-2000 www.sempra.com []
Worldwide employees: 11,248 [] CEO: Richard D. Farman [] Stock symbol: SRE []
Stock exchange: NYSE Sempra Energy is an energy services company. Sequenom 11555
Sorrento Valley Road San Diego , 92121 (858) 350-0345 [] Worldwide employees:
116 [] CEO: Hubert Koster [] Stock symbol: SQNM [] Stock exchange: NAS Sequenom
is in the field of industrial genomics, the large scale commercial use of DNA
variations for improving health, agriculture and livestock. SVI Holdings 12707
Highbluff Drive, Suite 335 San Diego, 92130 (858) 551-2365 [] Worldwide
employees: 315 [] CEO: Barry M. Schecter [] Stock symbol: SVI [] Stock exchange:
Amex SVI Holdings is engaged in the development and distribution of computer
software training courses and computer software and hardware for retail
establishments. Sunrise Medical 2382 Faraday Ave., Suite 200 Carlsbad, 92008
(760) 930-1500 www.sunrisemedical.com [] Worldwide employees: 4,600 [] CEO: Mike
Hammes [] Stock symbol: SMD [] Stock exchange: NYSE Sunrise Medical designs,
manufactures and markets products that address the recovery, rehabilitation and
respiratory needs of patients in institutional and home-care settings.
Synbiotics 11011 Via Frontera San Diego, 92127 (858) 451-3771 www.synbiotics.com
[] Worldwide employees: 133 [] CEO: Kenneth M. Cohen [] Stock symbol: SBIO []
Stock exchange: NAS Synbiotics provides rapid diagnostic and laboratory
diagnostic products for the animal health-care industry. ThermoTrex 10455
Pacific Center Court San Diego, 92121-4339 (858) 646-5300 www.thermo.com []
Worldwide employees: 1,800 [] CEO: Gary S. Weinstein [] Stock symbol: TKN []
Stock exchange: Amex ThermoTrex performs advanced technology research and
development in the areas of communications, avionics, X-ray detection, signal
processing, and lasers. Trega Biosciences 9880 Campus Point Drive San Diego,
92121 (858) 410-6500 www.trega.com [] Worldwide employees: N.A. [] CEO: Michael
G. Grey [] Stock symbol: TRGA [] Stock exchange: NAS Trega Biosciences is a drug
discovery company that utilizes combinatorial chemistry and other technologies
in the pursuit of small-molecule drug therapies. Titan 3033 Science Park Road
San Diego, 92121-1199 (858) 552-9500 www.titan.com [] Worldwide employees: 3,200
[] CEO: Gene W. Ray [] Stock symbol: TTN [] Stock exchange: NYSE Titan provides
state-of-the-art information technology and electronic systems and services to
commercial and government customers. Ubrandit.com 12626 High Bluff Drive, Suite
200 San Diego, 92130 (858) 350-9566 www.ubrandit.com [] Worldwide employees: 12
[] CEO: Jeff Phillips [] Stock symbol: UBI [] Stock exchange: Amex
Ubrandit.com's services allow companies to enchance their sites with various Web
and e-commerce additions. Venture Catalyst 16868 Via Del Campo Court Suite 200
San Diego, 92127 (858) 385-1000 www.vencat.com [] Worldwide employees: 46 []
CEO: L. Donald Speer II [] Stock symbol: VCAT [] Stock exchange: NAS Venture
Catalyst, formerly Inland Entertainment, provides consulting services to
start-up and emerging growth companies. ViaSat 6155 El Camino Real Carlsbad,
92009 (760) 438-8099 www.viasat.com [] Worldwide employees: 367 [] CEO: Mark D.
Dankberg [] Stock symbol: VSAT [] Stock exchange: NAS ViaSat designs, produces
and markets advanced digital satellite telecommunications and wireless signal
processing equipment. Vical 9373 Towne Centre Drive Suite 100 San Diego, 92121
(858) 453-9900 www.vical.com [] Worldwide employees: 119 [] CEO: Alain B.
Schreiber, M.D. [] Stock symbol: VICL [] Stock exchange: NAS Vical discovers and
develops gene-based pharmaceutical products. Vista Medical Technologies 5451
Avenida Encinas, Suite A Carlsbad, 92008 (760) 603-9120 www.vistamt.com []
Worldwide employees: 64 [] CEO: John R. Lyon [] Stock symbol: VMTIC [] Stock
exchange: NAS Vista Medical Technologies develops, manufactures and markets
proprietary visualization and information systems that enable minimally invasive
surgical solutions in cardiothoracic, head, neck and spine and other
microsurgical procedures. VistaInfo 5060 Shoreham Place, Suite 300 San Diego,
92122 (858) 450-6100 www.vistainfo.com [] Worldwide employees: 137 [] CEO:
Thomas R. Gay [] Stock symbol: VINF [] Stock exchange: NAS Vista Information
Solutions provides environmental risk information and address-based hazard and
risk classification information to bankers, engineers, insurance companies and
corporations throughout the United States. WD-40 1061 Cudahy Place San Diego,
92110 (619) 275-1400 www.wd40.com [] Worldwide employees: 177 [] CEO: Garry O.
Ridge [] Stock symbol: WDFC [] Stock exchange: NAS WD-40 manufactures and
markets three multi-purpose lubricant products known as WD-40, 3-IN-ONE Oil, and
T.A.L 5. Websense 10240 Sorrento Valley Road San Diego, 92121 (858) 320-8000
www.websense.com [] Worldwide employees: 119 [] CEO: John Carrington [] Stock
symbol: WBSN [] Stock exchange: NAS Websense provides employee Internet
management services, including Web filtering.

GRAPHIC: 3 PICS; CAPTIONS: 1. Richard Rubio is vice president of real estate
development for Rubio's Restaurants. In 1999, Rubio's opened 31 eateries. More
are on the way. 2. Eddie Delgado, left, and Dave Seymour of Health Sign
Nationwide, move a 10 foot "E" onto scaffolding in front of the Sempra Energy
building in downtown San Diego. 3. Employees at a Charlotte Russe warehouse
attach sensors to clothes before shipping the outfits to stores. (S.D. INC.-14);
PHOTOBY: 1. JERRY RIFE / Union-Tribune 2. NANCEE LEWIS / Union-Tribune 3. DON
KOHLBAUER / Union-Tribune

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007


                             542 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         May 23, 2000 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: STUDY AIMED AT PREVENTING LEG AMPUTATION

BYLINE: Knight-Ridder Newpapers

BODY:

   An experimental gene therapy at the University of Miami School of Medicine is
offering hope to people who might otherwise lose their legs to amputation
because of inadequate blood flow.

   For Zelda Meyers, who has already had one leg saved by a similar therapy, the
new study couldn't have come at a better time.

   Meyers, 63, of Coconut Creek, Fla., has small blood vessels that have become
clogged over time. She had surgeries to try to improve the blood flow, which
helped for a while but then failed.

   The condition, called occlusive arterial disease, had diminished her
circulation so severely that her doctor gave her a grim prognosis.

   He said she probably would lose both legs.

   She sought a second opinion. But when the second doctor agreed with the
first, she still refused to accept it.

   "I just wasn't ready for that," she said.

   Then Meyers read a newspaper article about a new treatment in Boston that was
successfully growing new blood vessels in the limbs of patients with her
condition. She called her son in Connecticut and asked him to inquire about it.
It turned out she was a good candidate for the study.

   A year and a half ago, she traveled to Boston for the treatment in her right
leg, which was in more danger than the left, and within 12 weeks enough new
vessels had formed to save her leg.

   Now she needs the treatment in her left leg.

   She became the first patient to receive injections of a genetically
engineered growth factor administered by Dr. Rafael Sequeira and Dr. Eduardo
Martinez at the University of Miami. The university is one of six medical
centers in the country offering the therapy.

   "It's a growth factor that will induce the cells in the area where it is
injected to produce some new blood vessels to improve the blood flow," said
Martinez, assistant professor of clinical surgery. "She's had surgeries in the
past to try to improve blood flow, but they failed. Hopefully, this will give
her her best chance."

   Martinez said the first phase of the study will test its safety and
effectiveness, then the study would be expanded to include more patients.

   Meyers got the first of a series of injections into her calf and thigh on
April 2. Doctors will be able to monitor new vessel growth by taking an
angiogram, a radiographic picture of the vessels in her leg.

   Meyers said her condition is painful and she often has trouble sleeping.

   "I just want to be able to walk," she said. "I envy someone who can walk."

   Martinez said the study is open to other patients in the area with low blood
flow to their legs.

   "They have to meet certain characteristics, which essentially is they have to
have advanced disease, have not been treated in the past couple of months and
need to accept that this is an experimental drug," Martinez said.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000


                             543 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 21, 2000, Sunday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: METRO/REGION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: Richard Saltus of the Globe staff contributed to this report.;
DOCTOR STIRS QUESTIONS ON GENETICS' FRONTIER

BYLINE: By Alice Dembner, and Liz Kowalczyk, Globe Staff

BODY:

   It has been nearly a year since Susan Darke's husband died while
participating in a gene transfer experiment at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center.
Tears fill her eyes as she wonders how a 59-year-old man, robust despite serious
heart trouble, could expire just hours after the surgery they had hoped would
allow him a fuller life.

   Why, she asks, didn't Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, the doctor overseeing the
clinical trial, tell patients that both he and the hospital had a financial
stake in the outcome of the experiment?   Why didn't they tell her that a less
invasive means of gene transfer into the heart was about to be tested?

   And why was it only after she explicitly asked that they told her that
another participant had died in a similar trial at the hospital?

   Her questions zero in on troubling issues in human experimentation as growing
numbers of doctors double as entrepreneurs, valued by medical institutions as
much for their talent in attracting research money and private investors as
their ability to heal patients.

   Amid a national review of gene therapy experiments in the wake of a young
patient's death and other problems, Isner's experiments were halted in February.
The Food and Drug Administration and a branch of the National Institutes of
Health are investigating. Isner, whom the president of St. Elizabeth's calls
"the Pedro Martinez of our research staff," acknowledged some lapses in an
interview last week with the Globe and in a written response to the FDA. But
Isner, along with hospital officials and executives of the company they formed
to eventually market gene therapy, say the health and safety of patients have
always been their primary concern.

   Yet, an examination unveils other issues:

   In addition to Roger J. Darke, five other patients have died in gene transfer
studies in other cities that are sponsored by Isner's company, Vascular Genetics
Inc., according to company officials. They say these deaths were properly
reported to federal agencies and were unrelated to gene therapy. But they have
not previously been reported publicly. The five were in studies testing whether
a gene could stimulate growth of new blood vessels in the leg.

   While Isner contends the gene therapy was not the cause, records obtained by
the Globe show that both heart patients who died in Isner's experiments at St.
Elizabeth's suffered cardiac arrest within days of the chest surgery and gene
injection. Darke of Peabody died within a day of the surgery. Mary E. Lucier of
Milford lingered - often in a coma-like state - for nearly four months. The two
deaths came among 45 chronically ill patients treated in similar protocols at
St. Elizabeth's.

   A National Institutes of Health committee that reviewed the protocol in 1998
asked whether the risk of surgery for Isner's patients outweighed the potential
benefit - a question the families are left to ponder. Isner had begun the trial
in which Lucier died before that committee could review it, a move that was
allowed but has since led to stricter rules. The NIH panel has recommended
restricting enrollment to extremely sick patients, and Isner said he has.

   A major investor in Vascular Genetics, the contract research group Cato
Holding, was overseeing the safety of trials involving 103 patients at 11 sites
across the country. In an attempt to win FDA permission to restart the trials,
Vascular Genetics last month hired an independent company to audit them.

   Vascular Genetics is in a race with at least two other biotechnology
companies to develop the first gene therapy product for heart disease. The
reward is "a billion-dollar-plus market," according to company president John
Cumming.

   Isner and St. Elizabeth's refuse to disclose their stakes in Vascular
Genetics, a privately held company, but together they apparently own nearly 25
percent, according to information obtained by the Globe.  The hospital says this
does not bias the research, but others are worried about the potential conflict.

   "How could he be unbiased when he stands to profit?" asked Deborah Grayson,
one of Roger Darke's four daughters, who, along with her mother, spoke publicly
for the first time since her father's death.

   "Anyone who knows me and knows the institution knows that we've always been
about patients and research," Isner, a 52-year-old cardiologist, responded last
week. "We certainly are not about to allow anything to happen that is going to
tarnish that reputation."

   Isner, chief of the 40-person cardiovascular research staff at St.
Elizabeth's, took the early lead nationally in testing gene therapy for the
heart. The experiments so far have been testing the safety of injecting the gene
that makes vascular endothelial growth factor into patients' hearts in an
attempt to grow new blood vessels to bypass those blocked by heart disease. He
has also been testing the gene in patients with severe circulatory problems in
their legs. To be accepted into Isner's trials, the patients had to have severe
problems that could no longer be managed well with medicine or normal surgery.

   Last year, Isner's group trumpeted its preliminary results: Several patients
felt their chest pain had eased, and tests suggested that more blood was
reaching the heart muscle. Other scientists note, however, that tests against a
placebo are needed before any firm conclusions can be drawn.

   The two deaths in the St. Elizabeth's trials came after injection of the gene
into the beating heart through a 3-inch incision in the chest. Isner has since
begun using another method that avoids chest surgery - injection via a catheter
inserted into the heart through a vein in the groin.

   Isner says deaths in such trials are not unexpected because of the patients'
illness, and he maintains that none was related to the gene therapy. However,
"the stress of surgery and anethesiology might have contributed to their
deaths," he said.

   More than 4,000 people nationally have participated in 372 gene transfer
protocols since 1989, according to the NIH. Only one death - in Pennsylvania -
has definitively been attributed to gene therapy. However, more than 1,500
severe problems have been reported to the NIH from January 1999 through February
of this year, including at least dozens of deaths. And researchers acknowledge
that 9 percent of the problems are "unexpected and possibly related" to gene
therapy. Despite Globe requests, neither St. Elizabeth's nor Vascular Genetics
would disclose the total number of complications that have occurred in their
trials.

   In Vascular Genetics' leg artery experiments, two participants died last fall
- one who got gene therapy at the Cleveland Clinic and one who was treated at
University Hospital in Bern, Switzerland. Two more deaths were reported at the
Durham (Va.) Medical Center and one at the Scripps Clinic in San Diego. Company
officials said none was due to the genes.

   The total is "significantly lower than what the mortality is for that patient
population as a whole," said Cumming, of Vascular Genetics.

   For the families of the two dead Massachusetts subjects, who were identified
by the Globe through death records, the news about Isner's financial interest
and other deaths in the country have given them pause. While both patients gave
their permission for the procedure knowing it carried risk, their families say
they believed it was a treatment rather than an experiment.

   Mary E. Lucier, who died at age 71 in October 1998, had her first heart
attack at age 48, followed by three bypass operations and angioplasty. "This was
her last hope," said her daughter, Jan Stallone of Milford. Stallone said Isner
gave Lucier excellent care during her lingering decline at the hospital.
Nonetheless, she is unsettled that Isner did not report the death properly to
the hospital's human subjects committee and autopsied her mother's heart himself
instead of allowing an outside review.

   "When you are desperate for something to give you back a quality of life, you
are so vulnerable," said Susan Darke, whose husband had worked daily as an
electrical engineer despite quadruple bypass surgery in 1993. "I thought he was
a patient, but he was a research subject. We weren't informed [of the risks] to
the degree we should have been and with a third party present with nothing to
gain."

   Isner defended the hospital's informed consent procedure, adding that he told
patients not to consider the experiment as therapy. But in the future, the
hospital plans to disclose in writing to all participants any illnesses or
deaths in previous trials at the hospital as well as the hospital's and doctor's
financial interest.

   Also, the hospital said it has imposed tougher reporting rules, after Isner
and the company failed to report some of the deaths promptly to two watchdog
agencies. They did report them quickly to the FDA.

   The hospital's president, Michael F. Collins, took responsibility last week
for the lapses in reporting and procedure and stood behind Isner, emphasizing
the importance of both the doctor and gene therapy to the institution. "Jeff
Isner has brought together an outstanding team," he said. Like Red Sox pitcher
Pedro Martinez, to whom Collins compared his superstar, Isner exudes confidence
and enjoys publicity. But some suggest managing superstars can create problems.

   "Some hospitals are reluctant to erect what may be perceived as bureaucratic
hurdles in the path of people who are bringing significant research dollars and
visibility to the institution," said Joan Rachlin, executive director of Public
Responsibility in Medicine and Research.

   Isner has helped give national stature to St. Elizabeth's, a 400-bed hospital
affiliated with Tufts University School of Medicine. Since his arrival in 1988
from New England Medical Center, where he was associate director of the cardiac
catheterization lab, he has helped catapult the hospital to a rank of 31st
nationally in NIH grants.

   The hospital rewarded Isner with a $200,000 salary in 1998, the last year for
which such data are public. (He and his wife own a 12-room home on 1.8 acres in
Weston, plus two homes in Mashpee.) The hospital invested more than $10 million
in Isner's gene work beginning in 1994, and owns several patents resulting from
his work.

   Unable to interest any existing pharmaceutical companies in sponsoring
Isner's work, in November 1997, the hospital joined with Isner, Human Genome
Sciences, and Cato Holding Co. to form Vascular Genetics.

   Cumming said it cost "millions of dollars" to launch the company, but would
not detail the shares. Hospital officials said St. Elizabeth's now owns less
than 10 percent. Isner's share, 20 percent at the outset, has been reduced
somewhat, hospital officials say.

   Cumming said he does not believe that Isner's financial interest influenced
the trial or harmed patients. "We think our program is safe," he said. "He's
going to honestly and ethically follow protocols." But he acknowledged that the
stakes are high.

   An estimated 60 million Americans suffer from cardiovascular disease, the
leading cause of death in the United States. Therapy that has the potential to
delay the need for angioplasty or bypass surgery would be very lucrative.

   GenVec Inc., a Maryland company, and Collateral Therapeutics of San Diego are
competing with Vascular Genetics to develop gene therapy for heart disease.

   The competitive pressure is generating concern among some doctors and
ethicists that an investigator's financial interest could lead him to bias the
outcome of a study - even unintentionally - by withholding poor results or
enrolling inappropriate patients.

   The potential conflicts are not peculiar to St. Elizabeth's. "Not only is
financial interest common, it is the modus operandi in this industry," said
Charles Henderson, editor-in-chief of Gene Therapy Weekly.

   Haavi Morreim, a professor at University of Tennessee Medical School in
Memphis who studies financial aspects of research, said, "I don't think there
are villains greedily promoting their own profits. Mostly it's very good people
who have or think they have a wonderful idea to help people and do not
appreciate the level of conflict in which they're doing their work. [They have]
such enthusiasm for the project that it obscures some of the price that the
patient might pay."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner's clinical trials were halted pending a
federal review. / GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/DAVID L. RYAN

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000


                             544 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                        May 21, 2000 Sunday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: FORUM OPINION & IDEAS; Pg. 2G

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: ROLLING BACK CANCER

BODY:

   The news last week of falling breast cancer death rates in the United States,
Britain and probably many other countries was welcome indeed.

   Doctors give most of the credit to the widespread use of tamoxifen, a drug
that is especially effective in middle-aged women.

   In the United States, the prediction is 40,000 deaths from breast cancer this
year, down 20 percent from a decade ago. Among young and middle-aged women, the
expected decrease is even more pronounced, at 25 percent.

   Tamoxifen, developed in Britain, unquestionably has become a tremendous
disease-fighting tool. Combined with advances in cancer screening, chemotherapy
and women's own awareness of the need to detect and attack the disease early, it
is saving thousands of lives every year.

   And yet, thousands still die. And thousands more have to endure difficult and
painful treatment - including the sickness and debilitation that often accompany
chemotherapy and the physical and psychological stresses of mastectomy- in order
to survive.

   Tamoxifen, too, can have serious side-effects, including an increased
susceptibility to ovarian cancer and potentially fatal blood clotting in the
lungs.

   All of that makes tamoxifen, as effective as it is, only a stepping stone to
better treatment of breast cancer.

   According to medicine's innovators, the most promising field for the cures of
the future is genetics. As scientists learn more about marker genes and common
mutations that lead to diseases like cancer, genetic therapies will be developed
to reduce risk and even to cure.

   Here in Cleveland, University Hospitals Center for Human Genetics embarked
last week on a pilot program that will test for mutations that often presage not
just breast cancer, but ovarian and colon cancer as well. The pool of 150
subjects will be Ashkenazi Jews, a population that has the world's highest known
prevalence of cancer gene mutations.

   In the near term, genetics will expand doctors' arsenal of screening
techniques, serving as an early warning device to predict whose genes might
betray them years from now.

   But at the speed at which genetic discoveries are occurring, it is hardly
outlandish to hope that genetic repairs of error-prone genes will be possible
within the lifetimes of some of those tested in UH's pilot project.

   Credit for improving the breast cancer survival rate in the 1990s is going to
tamoxifen - a drug that was discovered way back in 1958.

   What will today's researchers find that will change the landscape of cancer
prevention, detection and treatment 30 or 40 years from now? We cannot know, but
we have every reason for high hopes.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2000


                             545 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 20, 2000, Saturday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: TRANSKARYOTIC SEEKS TO IMPEACH EXPERT CLOSELY WATCHED BIOTECH PATENT
TRIAL INVOLVING AMGEN ENDS FIRST WEEK

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. yesterday ended the first week of its patent
infringement courtroom battle with Amgen Inc. by trying to impeach the testimony
of Harvey Lodish, Amgen's first expert witness.

   Lodish insisted that TKT's way of making erythropoietin, an antianemia drug,
is essentially the same as Amgen's process for Epogen.   "Patents describe many
things," concluded Lodish, a highly regarded professor of bioengineering at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Using the descriptions in the Amgen
patents I could make EPO many ways."

   James Haley, TKT's attorney, continued to question Lodish's broad
interpretation of the processes and techniques described in Amgen's patents that
were issued in 1983 and 1984.

   Epogen is Amgen's brand name for artificial erythropoietin (EPO), which has
become the world's best-selling biotech drug. The antianemia treatment is used
to help trigger the production of red blood cells.

   TKT, which is seeking to make virtually the same drug as Epogen, says its
proprietary approach for producing therapeutic proteins like EPO does not
require the cloning of genes and their subsequent insertion into nonhuman cell
lines.

   The Cambridge company maintains its technology, called gene activation, is
significantly different and does not infringe on five of Amgen's Epogen patents.
Amgen insists it does, pointing to its recombinant genetic engineering
technology. Epogen is made by splicing the EPO gene into animal cells, which
Amgen says is broad enough to include TKT's cell activation technology.

   Lodish, under cross-examination by Haley, also was questioned about a
carbohydrate known as NGNA that's found in Epogen but not in TKT's GA-EPO.

   In seeking to find other differences, Lodish was asked about a July 1998
deposition he gave on behalf of Amgen in its arbitration proceeding with Johnson
& Johnson. That case involved Epogen and Amgen's next generation version of
Epogen, called NESP.

   Back then, Lodish described some structural differences, but yesterday he
insisted that comparision does not apply to Epogen and TKT's GA-EPO.

   The nonjury trial before US District Court Judge William G. Young, which will
resume June 2, has attracted some Boston-area patent attorneys during the first
four days of testimony.

   "Frankly, TKT tried to shake Lodish's testimony to show that he was
inconsistent with what he said earlier this week, but I did not see any major
shifts," said one lawyer, who asked to remain anonymous.

   Amgen called its second expert witness, Richard B. Cummings, a professor of
biochemistry at the University of Oklahoma who is an expert on complex
carbohydrate and protein structures. He is expected to testify that despite some
structural differences between both companies' drugs, their biological activity
is the same.

   Separately, TKT announced that its lead investor, E.M. Warburg Pincus & Co.,
has signed a definitive agreement to buy $100 million worth of newly issued
convertible preferred stock in a private placement. TKT will issue about
3,570,000 shares of the company's common stock at a conversion price of $28 a
share.

   TKT said it will use the funds to develop protein replacement products to
treat genetic disorders.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2000


                             546 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                   MAY 20, 2000 Saturday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: JEFF U. SETTLES AIDS RESEARCH SUIT

BYLINE: Jim Smith, Daily News Staff Writer

BODY:

   Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia yesterday agreed to pay $2.6
million to the government to settle a whistle-blower's lawsuit and other claims
alleging fraud in federally funded AIDS and cancer research.

   Jefferson denied any wrongdoing, insisting it agreed to settle the case to
avoid long, costly legal battles. Jefferson also agreed to ensure integrity in
future grant actions.

   Jefferson and the federal government will ask scientific journals to publish
a correction for articles on Jefferson's AIDS gene therapy research that were
printed in the mid-1990s.

   The whistle-blower, Yong Wu, a former Jefferson researcher who is a native of
China and a legal U.S. resident, is to receive $90,000 from the government for
disclosing one aspect of the allegedly faulty research.

   "I see the settlement as a vindication of Dr. Wu's whistle-blowing efforts,"
said his attorney, James Ratner, of New York City.

   "As a doctor, he felt very concerned about [potential] human trials that he
believed would be harmful to patients."

   The proposed settlement now goes to U.S. District Judge John R. Padova for
his approval.

   The settlement focused on two problem areas involving Jefferson's AIDS and
cancer research between 1992 and May 1998.Wu and eventually government
scientists alleged that false or fabricated research data, as well as
non-existent data, were used to support Jefferson's application for $836,712 in
grants.

   In the second area, government auditors alleged that Jefferson falsely
claimed that its "principal investigator" on a $496,000 cancer research grant
was working on the research in this country even after the researcher had
returned to Italy for personal reasons.

   Jefferson insisted its research on the gene therapy was validated and
reconfirmed by numerous outside laboratories.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002


                             547 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MAY 20, 2000 Saturday D EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: JEFFERSON TO PAY $2.6 MILLION TO SETTLE RESEARCH-FRAUD CASE THE
UNIVERSITY DENIED IT MISUSED FUNDS IN TWO PROJECTS. IT SAID IT WANTED TO AVOID
FURTHER LEGAL COSTS.

BYLINE: Stacey Burling, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Thomas Jefferson University yesterday agreed to pay the federal government
$2.6 million to settle a civil case involving allegations of fraud in two
research projects.

   In one case, prosecutors contended that false or fabricated data were used to
apply for initial and continued financing for research into a novel use of gene
therapy to combat HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

   In the other, the government alleges that the principal investigator of a
study involving leukemia was actually in Italy during most of the time covered
by the grant, that the salaries of other researchers who had nothing to do with
that project were charged to the grant, and that "no new science" resulted from
the study.

   The two projects received $1.3 million in federal funds.

   Ninety thousand dollars of the settlement will go to Yong Wu, a former
postdoctoral fellow at Jefferson who brought the gene-therapy project to the
government's attention, and his lawyer.

   "I see this settlement as a vindication of Dr. Wu's whistle-blowing efforts,"
said James Ratner, Wu's lawyer.

   The research in question involved inserting into blood cells a gene that
would trigger antibodies to an important protein produced by HIV. In theory, the
antibodies would bind to that protein and prevent any HIV that had invaded the
cells from reproducing.

   The Jefferson scientists reported in medical journals that the approach
effectively had stopped reproduction of HIV in cell culture.

   The university has since submitted corrections to the journals. As part of
yesterday's settlement, Jefferson agreed to ask scientific journals to make
further corrections. And it has begun implementing a three-year program designed
to ensure compliance with the rules regarding grants.

   Jefferson denied any misuse of research funds. In a statement released
yesterday, the university said that the gene-therapy research was "validated and
reconfirmed by numerous laboratories outside of Jefferson" and that the cancer
funds were used to do the work described in the grant.

   Alan Kelly, university counsel, said that the cases began four years ago and
that Jefferson simply wished to avoid further legal costs. "These are
long-standing matters," he said. "The legal costs are extraordinary for the
university, and we would like to get on with our mission and close them."

   David R. Hoffman, an assistant U.S. Attorney who handled the case for the
government, said financial settlements in research fraud cases were rare. He
said he was not aware of any similar cases in this region.

   The Jefferson case, he said, is "significant because it focuses on an area
that traditionally has not been pursued for civil False Claims Act prosecutions.
The government has trusted educational institutions and researchers to do the
right thing."

   In addition to the university, the settlement names Carlo Croce, chairman of
Jefferson's department of microbiology-immunology and director of the Jefferson
Cancer Institute; Roger J. Pomerantz, chief of the division of infectious
diseases and director of Jefferson's Center for Human Virology; Lingxun Duan, a
former postdoctoral researcher in Jefferson's division of infectious diseases;
and Jerold Glick, former senior administrator of the Jefferson Cancer Institute.

   Duan, who had day-to-day oversight of the gene-therapy project, was asked to
leave the university because of "inconsistent statements about technical aspects
of the science" to members of an internal investigation committee, Kelly said.

   Pomerantz, who oversaw Duan's work, was admonished by the committee for
supervision problems. "He has since been monitored and corrected," Kelly said.
Croce and Glick were not disciplined, Kelly said, because they were only
remotely involved in the cancer grant.

   Three years ago, the Jefferson committee concluded that the gene-therapy
research was marred by "extraordinarily careless science." The university
reiterated yesterday that the committee did not go so far as to find scientific
misconduct.

   Kelly said yesterday that Wu, the postdoctoral fellow who reported the
research to the government, was fired by Jefferson for "performance reasons." He
said Wu and another researcher who was not named in the settlement had
criticized the gene-therapy project in an effort to "discredit Dr. Pomerantz,
and they were motivated by professional and personal jealousy."

   Wu's lawyer, Ratner, responded that he did not think the university would
have made a $2.6 million settlement because of "some juvenile jealousy."

   An examination of the gene-therapy work by the federal Office of Research
Integrity, which investigates scientific misconduct and advised the government
in this case, was put on hold during the U.S. Attorney's investigation that
resulted in yesterday's settlement. That process will now resume, said Alan
Price, acting director of the ORI's division of investigative oversight.

   The other part of the settlement involved the lead investigator of the cancer
project, identified by the university as Salvatore Travali. Hoffman said the
fact that he was in Italy was important because grants are awarded
competitively, often on the basis of the principal investigator's
qualifications.

   "We were paying for a grant for a specific principal investigator who wasn't
even in the country at the time, and that's from our perspective a problem,"
Hoffman said. Kelly said Jefferson had never lied about Travali's whereabouts.

   Stacey Burling's e-mail address is sburling@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             548 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 19, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E3

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: DRUG-PATENT TRIAL ZEROS IN ON AMINO ACIDS

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

   The significance of a one-amino-acid difference in a drug's biological
structure launched the defense attorneys' case for Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.
yesterday in a high-stakes patent-infringement battle with Amgen Inc.

   The lawsuit centers on patents for Epogen, the brand name for Amgen's
artificial erythropoietin, a replacement for the protein normally produced in
the kidney to trigger the production of red blood cells. Patients with severe
forms of anemia, such as those on kidney dialysis, take Epogen. Three years ago,
Cambridge-based TKT received patents to make erythropoietin, which Amgen claims
infringes on its Epogen patents.   In one of Amgen's five patents for Epogen, it
is described as having 166 amino acids. TKT is proposing to create its version
of the drug with 165 amino acids. That difference, plus technical reasons why
Epogen is actually 165 amino acids and not 166 as claimed, were among the points
defense attorney James Haley made yesterday.

   During Haley's cross-examination of Harvey Lodish, a professor of
bioengineering at the Masssachusetts Institute of Technology and Amgen's expert
witness, Lodish said the difference of a single amino acid has no effect on
Epogen's biological activity. Haley's questioning was aimed at raising doubts
about the validity of Amgen's patents and how different they are from TKT's
patents.

   Earlier this week, Lodish said the processes for making both Epogen and TKT's
unnamed version of the drug were virtually the same.

   Asked whether TKT's gene-activation technology - a method of splicing in a
genetic "switch" that turns on the specific gene in human cells for making
erythropoietin - was ever mentioned in Amgen's patents, Lodish said it was not.

   Haley also questioned Lodish about some scientific journal articles written
between 1986 and 1989 - two to five years after Amgen was issued its Epogen
patents - that first mentioned gene activation.

   One attorney, attending as a courtroom observer, said the journal articles
illustrated TKT's point that Amgen's patent claims could not cover all
production aspects of Epogen, as researchers only began discovering different
processes and techniques, such as gene activation, in the late 1980s.

   Lodish also acknowledged that his own college textbook on cell and molecular
biology, first published in 1986, included only some of these new genetic
insertion techniques in a 1991 second edition.

   The nonjury trial is being held before US District Judge William G. Young in
Boston.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000


                             549 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 19, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: METRO/REGION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: DOCTOR REBUTS FDA CITATIONS LAPSE TIED TO GENE PATIENT'S DEATH REPORT

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Boston gene therapy researcher Dr. Jeffrey Isner, slapped last month with
federal allegations of failing to protect human research subjects, yesterday
conceded lapses in reporting a patient's death but said most of the Food and
Drug Administration's findings against him are wrong.

   Isner's comments, his first since the FDA made its accusations, are in a
19-page response to the agency's warning letter of April 28 - a letter that said
he violated regulations governing clinical trial procedures.   In an interview
yesterday, Isner agreed that the stress of chest surgery to perform the gene
implants might have played a role in the deaths of two people in the program.
But he maintained that the FDA found no evidence that the therapy actually
caused the fatalities.

   Isner, 52, a superstar cardiologist at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center and
professor of medicine at Tufts University, said he and the hospital were eager
to cooperate with regulators. Isner also said they wanted to resume the
experimental trials. If successful, he said, the gene therapy "is likely to
change the way medicine is practiced."

   The clinical gene therapy trials test a method aimed at growing new blood
vessels to bypass arterial blockages in the heart or the leg. The trials are
sponsored by Vascular Genetics Inc. of Durham, N.C., a company Isner co-founded
in 1997. The American Society of Gene Therapy has said Isner's financial stake
in the company is a potential conflict of interest, but Isner and hospital
officials say the link does not influence the research. The hospital also has a
financial stake in the company.

   Isner contended that two deaths out of the 85 treated in several gene therapy
trials were a good record, given that the patients were chronically ill. It was
a mistake, he acknowledged, not to report one of those deaths to a hospital
watchdog committee. But Isner added that the deaths were properly reported to
the FDA.

   In the written response to the FDA, the hospital and Isner say 16 of the
FDA's 21 findings were in error: Some were minor issues of documentation while
others involved whether patients not medically eligible for the research were
wrongly admitted to the trials.

   Isner also said a chain of lapses led to a patient undergoing the gene
therapy despite having a lung tumor that enlarged subsequent to the therapy.
Patients with cancer are supposed to be excluded from the therapy trials,
because the genes produce a protein that potentially could speed the growth of a
tumor. Among the mistakes, the response said, was a "communications error" in
which a report of a chest X-ray was never filed in the patient's chart. The
letter added that in the course of screening patients for the trial, doctors
diagnosed many other cancer cases and the one cancer victim admitted to the
trial has survived.

   Isner, who was interviewed with hospital president Michael F. Collins, said
St. Elizabeth's gene therapy trials differ significantly from highly publicized
trials at the University of Pennsylvania, in which a healthy 18-year-old patient
died last fall.

   "We're not dealing with healthy, young patients," Isner said. St. Elizabeth's
trial volunteers were either about to lose their legs because of blocked
arteries or suffered from terminal heart disease.

   "This is as sick as you get," Isner said, adding that in every case he told
the patients that the experiment was "a roll of the dice."

   One patient died in October 1998, four months after she suffered an abnormal
heart rhythm and two days after receiving the gene implants. It was this death
that the FDA said researchers failed to report to the hospital's Institutional
Review Board.

   In February, the FDA directed St. Elizabeth's to halt all gene therapy
trials: Six have already been completed, and two active ones remain on hold,
said a hospital spokeswoman. FDA investigators spent five days in March
scrutinizing research records at St. Elizabeth's.

   Their conclusions were in the warning letter that accused Isner of "a serious
lack of knowledge of your responsibilities as a principal investigator."

   In responding to the FDA, Isner and hospital officials said they had already,
or would in the future take a number of corrective actions.

   Among them were plans to follow all research protocols and enforce the
criteria for admission to a trial; report all serious adverse events, including
deaths, as soon as they are discovered; communicate more effectively with a
patient's other doctors to check on the patient's health; and to train staff in
following protocol rules.  Regarding the missed cancer diagnosis, hospital
officials said a committee will focus on the health histories of all patients in
whom "suspicious lesions" are revealed during screening.

   In addition, Collins and Isner said that research volunteers will be informed
about previous adverse events or deaths of patients receiving the treatment.
They will also be advised that Isner and St. Elizabeth's have a financial
interest in the research because they hold equity in Vascular Genetics.

   Collins, the hospital president, said he takes "full responsibility" for the
flaws highlighted by the FDA. "I'm not happy that things were found that could
be improved upon, but we have taken a good faith effort to review all of our
policies and practices."

   The next move in the case is up to the FDA, which can impose penalties or
simply re-open the trials if it is satisfied with the response and plan for
corrections.

   In the most recent gene transfer experiments, Isner and his team have been
inserting the genes into the heart via a catheter, avoiding the more invasive
chest surgery previously used. Isner said imaging tests on the patients who have
received the genes show significant improvement in blood flow to the heart, and
that they have been able to walk longer on treadmill tests.

   "I think it's intriguing and encouraging," Isner said of the research. But
he, along with others in the field, say the true value of the gene implants will
not be known until the treatment is compared against an inactive placebo in
studies where neither patient nor researchers know who received the genes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. Dr. Jeffrey Isner (left) and St. Elizabeth's Hospital chief
Michael Collins at a media conference yesterday. / GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/DAVID L.
RYAN 2. Dr. Jeffrey Isner, in his office at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, says he is
eager to cooperate with FDA regulators. / GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/DAVID L. RYAN

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000


                             550 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 18, 2000, Thursday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: METRO/REGION; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: AT NEJM, CLASH OVER CONNECTIONS NEW, OLD EDITORS DIFFER ON
CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST REGULATIONS

BYLINE: By Richard A. Knox, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Should scientists profit from companies whose products they research? The
newly named editor in chief of the New England Journal of Medicine and the
outgoing editor are sharply split on that question, one of the hottest current
issues in medicine.

   Dr. Jeffrey Drazen, who will take over the top job at the influential journal
this summer, said yesterday that academic researchers should be able to own
substantial stock in a company or accept sizable consultant fees and still
accept research support - as long as their studies don't involve humans.
Drazen is a member of a Harvard Medical School panel expected to recommend next
week that the school loosen its stringent restrictions on faculty ties to
industry. Harvard's current rules, Drazen said, are "a little too restrictive."

   But to Dr. Marcia Angell, who will relinquish editorial control of the New
England Journal to Drazen, "Softening its conflict-of-interest guidelines is
exactly the wrong thing for Harvard Medical School to do" at a time when
academic institutions generally are relaxing their rules.

   "There is now considerable evidence that researchers with ties to drug
companies are indeed more likely to report results that are favorable to the
products of those companies," Angell said.

   The conflict of interest issue is popping up with increasing frequency. The
death of an 18-year-old man in a gene therapy trial at the University of
Pennsylvania last September uncovered the fact that Penn's head of gene therapy,
Dr. James Wilson, owns a substantial stake in Genovo Inc., a company founded to
capitalize on the university's research.

   The episode at Penn stimulated a federal review of other gene therapy
experiments, which recently put the spotlight on Boston cardiologist Jeffrey
Isner. He holds an equity interest in a company that stands to benefit from the
results of human experiments to grow new coronary arteries. Isner is running the
experiments at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, which is also a stakeholder in the
company.

   Even when the issue is not stock ownership, companies are increasingly
pressuring academic researchers to control how research results are presented in
exchange for financial support, insiders say.

   "Companies want a final say" in how research reports are written, said Nikki
Zapol, director of corporate-sponsored research at Massachusetts General
Hospital. "More companies are pushing for that, and more researchers are
accepting." Up to one-half of all industry contracts have such clauses, Zapol
said, but Mass. General insists they be removed.

   The New England Journal editors' difference of opinion is the first
indication of how the Boston-based publication's policy may differ under
Drazen's leadership. That will be closely watched, because the New England
Journal is often cited as the world's most influential medical journal - the one
researchers vie hardest to get their work into.

   Angell and her predecessors have put in place some of the strictest
conflict-of-interest standards of any medical journal, although they have
sometimes lapsed in enforcing them. But Drazen said that the issue would not be
at the top of his agenda.

   "It's not my number one priority," Drazen said in an interview. But he said
he would not immediately change the journal's current policies, which require
authors of scientific reports to disclose industry ties but disqualify authors
of editorials and state-of-the-art review articles if they take company money or
own stock.

   Drazen, who has accepted consultant fees, stock, and research support from at
least nine biomedical companies, said he will give up advisory positions and
liquid assets when he takes over the New England Journal's helm. He will
continue to do some basic research, he said.

   Under the journal's policies, Drazen himself will be barred for two years
from writing about research involving companies from which he accepted support
or in which he owned stock.

   He declined to disclose the Harvard committee's recommendations, which are
scheduled to be presented to the medical faculty next week. "There are people
who agree with Marcia that [current rules are] too liberal and there are those
who feel it's still too restrictive," he said.

   Drazen said his personal opinion is that researchers should not be barred
from doing laboratory or animal research if they own stock in or accept support
from companies with an interest in the outcome of their research. At the moment,
Harvard Medical School's 6,000 full-time faculty members cannot conduct research
for a company in which they own more than $20,000 in stock or receive more than
$10,000 in fees or royalties.

   "As an academic I want to work with the pharmaceutical industry to bring
forward new treatments to get people better," Drazen said. "The pharmaceutical
industry is a very powerful force. It's like electricity. It's a wonderful
thing, and if I use it right, it's very helpful to me. If I use it wrong, I can
get burned."

   The new editor, a specialist in pulmonary medicine at Brigham and Women's
Hospital, said cases of potential conflict of interest should be handled "on a
case-by-case basis."

   Angell warned that medical schools and teaching hospitals risk losing support
if they leave themselves "open to the charge that they are for sale."

   As a striking example of how pervasive researchers' industry entanglements
have become, Angell pointed to the lead article in this week's journal, a study
on the most effective way to treat chronic depression.

   "The authors' ties with companies that make antidepressant drugs were so
extensive that it would have used too much space to disclose them fully in the
Journal," Angell wrote in an editorial titled "Is Academic Medicine for Sale?"

   The journal referred readers to its Web site for full details of the study
authors' drug industry ties. The New England Journal does not disqualify
research papers if their authors take industry funding, but they must disclose
the potential conflict.

   Authors of editorials and review articles, which summarize the current state
of knowledge on a topic, are supposedly disqualified if they have industry ties.
However, last year Angell acknowledged that the Journal had failed to enforce
that requirement in 19 drug review articles, including one authored by Drazen.

   Angell said it was hard to find an unencumbered specialist to write an
editorial on the depression study it published today because "very few . . . do
not have financial ties to drug companies that make antidepressants."

   The lead author of the depression study, Dr. Martin B. Keller of Brown
University, came under fire last year for alleged conflict of interest because
he accepted more than $500,000 in 1998 from drug companies whose products he
touted in medical journals and at conferences.

   Brown University did not consider Keller's unusually large industry payments
to be a conflict of interest and did not report his payments to federal agencies
that also supported his work. The university said federal regulations did not
require any notification.

   Attempts to reach Keller yesterday were unsuccessful.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000


                             551 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MAY 18, 2000 Thursday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: ANOTHER VOICE AGAINST RESEARCH CONFLICTS

BYLINE: Jeff Donn, ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:

   The editor of the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine is calling for
stronger restrictions on stock ownership and other financial incentives for
researchers, saying growing conflicts of interest are tainting science.

   Dr. Marcia Angell joins a wave of critics who say an explosion of research
money from drug and medical-equipment companies is injecting commercial concerns
into the scientific process in troubling ways.

   "When the boundaries between industry and academic medicine become as blurred
as they are now, the business goals of industry influence the mission of medical
schools in multiple ways," she cautioned.

   She laid down the challenge in today's issue of the journal in an editorial
headlined "Is Academic Medicine for Sale?" The Boston-based journal is regarded
as medicine's most distinguished periodical.

   Angell, the journal's departing editor, acknowledged that rising research
funding from biotechnology and drug companies has helped lead to dramatic
advances against many diseases in recent years.

   At the same time, she said, medical schools have struck a "Faustian bargain"
with industry.

   She said industry representatives are lavishing giveaway products, other
gifts and trips on doctors. She said speaking and consulting fees, along with
other compensation, were subtly swaying researchers toward more favorable
findings on products of companies making the payments.

   She said researchers may also be focusing on trivial - but marketable -
differences between drugs.

   As a remedy, she said major medical schools should adopt a strong, common
code for conflicts of interest, banning some writing and speaking arrangements
and stock ownership in companies making the products under study. She said drug
companies should not promote products and offer gifts to students and doctors at
teaching hospitals. And she suggested that researchers' consulting income could
go into a common research pool.

   Concerns about similar conflicts of interest were raised following the death
of an Arizona teenager in a gene therapy trial at the University of Pennsylvania
last year. The university had an equity stake in a company founded by the
experiment's leader, James Wilson. The company, Genovo Inc., helped fund the
research.

   Dr. Jeffrey Drazen, an asthma researcher at Brigham and Women's Hospital, is
scheduled to replace Angell, probably later this year.

   Drazen's own ties to the drug industry came under scrutiny Feb. 24, when the
journal said it had published 19 articles on drug treatments without disclosing
the authors' industry links. One of the authors was Drazen, who had accepted
grants or an advisory role at eight companies.

   Angell pointed to a study of depression treatments in today's issue with an
unusually long list of potential conflicts. Its lead author, Brown University
psychiatrist Martin Keller, said in an interview that industry money was badly
needed for the large study of 681 patients at 12 sites.

   He said the personal integrity of scientists helps resist conflicting
pressures, and he suggested "a balance between what's reasonable and fair - and
what would be so overly strict that it would be restrictive."

   His study was funded by the drug company Bristol-Meyers Squibb. Company
spokeswoman Tracy Furey said she did not feel that providing research grants
necessarily influenced the outcome of medical research. Neither she nor Keller
would discuss details of personal compensation to researchers.

   Michael Werner, a lawyer for the Washington-based Biotechnology Industry
Organization, said disclosure of financial ties and government regulation
sufficiently protected the public. He said companies had every reason to shun
poor research because of the liability and the bad publicity that could result
from a recall.

   Underscoring the editor's message in the same issue, journal correspondent
Thomas Bodenheimer of the University of California at San Francisco said 70
percent of money for clinical tests of drugs and devices now comes from
industry, not government.

   David Rothman, director of the Center for Society and Medicine at Columbia
University, said researchers used to face heavier pressure to fudge research for
reputation rather than for wealth.

   "I think it is more benign to be after fame than after fortune," he said.
"You're less likely to cut corners."

   Harvard University, with some of the most stringent restrictions on conflict
of interest, is now under pressure from some researchers to ease rules,
acknowledged Margaret Dale, an associate dean at its medical school. She said
they argue that there is a potential even for a school such as Harvard to lose
researchers to more laissez-faire schools.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             552 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 16, 2000, Tuesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: AMGEN WITNESS OPENS TRIAL ON BIOTECH PATENTS CAMBRIDGE EXPERT
TESTIFIES ON DRUG'S MANUFACTURE

BYLINE: By Ronald Rosenberg, Globe Staff

BODY:

   A Whitehead Institute scientist yesterday gave US District Court Judge
William Young a primer on biotechnology as he took the stand as the first
witness in the patent infringement lawsuit between Amgen Inc. and Transkaryotic
Therapies Inc. of Cambridge.

   The nonjury trial is being closely watched by Wall Street and the
biotechnology community to see how far patents can reach covering a natural
substance found in the body and how new, lower-cost manufacturing processes
could affect the most profitable biotech drugs.   The suit, which began more
than three years ago, stems from TKT's claim that it has found an alternative
way to make Epogen, a red-blood cell stimulator developed by Amgen - and the
world's best-selling biotech drug with worldwide sales of nearly $4 billion.

   Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, Calif., has become the nation's largest
biotech company because of its success developing and selling Epogen. The
company is suing both TKT and its partner, Aventis SA, one of the largest
European pharmaceutical companies, for allegedly violating five Amgen patents
for Epogen.

   Harvey Lodish, a widely regarded professor of biology and bioengineering at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who runs a 30-person research
laboratory at the Cambridge-based Whitehead Institute, testified on behalf of
Amgen.

   In his testimony on the underlying technology of Amgen patents, he explained,
with questioning from Amgen lead attorney Lloyd R. Day Jr., the structure of
erythropoietin (EPO). The drug is the human hormone that Amgen developed to
treat anemia in people suffering from advanced kidney disease, under the brand
name Epogen.

   Lodish, who is being paid $625 an hour by Amgen as an expert witness, said a
reading of Amgen's product patent shows that EPO can be made using any
vertebrate cells, which includes mammalian cells. Amgen uses mammalian cells to
make EPO.

   His lengthy testimony - occassionally interrupted by the judge seeking
scientific clarification - stressed that Amgen's gene-splicing or recombinant
DNA technology covers a variety of ways of making EPO. The company clones the
human gene responsible for the production of EPO and implants the gene into
Chinese hamsters' ovary cells, which then make the hormone.

   TKT claims it has found a new way to make EPO that Amgen could have foreseen
when it patented its technique in 1983 and 1984. Called cell-activation, it
relies on human cells to make EPO in laboratory cultures with TKT-developed
genetic sequences, to create a genetic switch that turns on only the dormant EPO
gene to produce EPO.

   Yesterday, TKT lead attorney Herbert Schwartz said TKT's EPO manufacturing
methods are significantly different from Amgen's. Amgen's patents, he said,
should not encompass all the uses of recombinant technology and all EPO-like
products. One scientist has isolated EPO from human urine, long before Amgen
became a company, TKT has stated.

   Schwartz maintained Amgen's Epogen patents are not only too broad, but also
invalid.

   The trial is expected to last through late June, with Lodish the first of
five Amgen researchers to testify. Dr. Fu-Kuen Lin, the Amgen scientist who was
the first person to both conceive the idea of EPO and discover how to make it,
will also testify.

   TKT will then call an undisclosed number of scientists who are expected to
rebut Amgen's testimony.

   Lin is no stranger to patent lawsuits. According to a three-judge panel of
the US Federal Appeals Court in Washington, D.C., nine years ago, Lin was the
first to clone the EPO gene. In that patent battle over EPO, Amgen beat out
Genetic Institute of Cambridge. In that case, both companies were racing to
develop EPO, and Lin was the first person to fully describe the EPO gene.
Genetic Institute lost the bitterly contested suit after the US Supreme Court
refused to hear its appeal.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000


                             553 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                       May 15, 2000 Monday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 01D

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Drug debate in court

BYLINE:  From Journal Sentinel wire reports

BODY:

   The drug is already worth billions of dollars and could be worth billions
more. No wonder Wall Street will be paying close attention this week as a
3-year-old fight over who is allowed to produce it finally goes to trial.
Epogen, a red blood cell stimulator commonly used to treat anemia in kidney
dialysis patients, accounted for $1.8 billion in U.S. sales last year for Amgen,
the world's largest biotechnology company. But a smaller company,
Cambridge-based Transkaryotic Therapies Inc., or TKT, has found another way to
make the protein that makes the drug work. Amgen says TKT is violating the
patents it holds on Epogen, but TKT says its process is entirely new and could
not have been envisioned when Amgen patented its technique. The patent
infringement case opens in federal court in Boston today.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000


                             554 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                   May 14, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
A Case of Letting the Gene Out of the Bottle

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

BODY:

   IN the annals of bureaucratic slip-ups, this one was a beaut. Last December,
an obscure government agency known as the European Patent Office mistakenly
issued the first patent to allow the cloning of a human being. More alarmingly,
critics say, it may have granted scientists the right to change the genetic
makeup of the entire human species.

   The patent, issued in Munich, is No. EP-0695351B1. It gives its holder, the
University of Edinburgh in Scotland, the sole right to make, use and sell human
beings created in its laboratory. The university has the legal right, at least
for the next 20 years, to prevent competitors in 19 European countries from
copying its techniques without paying the university a fee.

    True, the University of Edinburgh, where Darwin once studied, intended none
of this -- it wanted only to patent certain laboratory methods that may prove
useful in fighting diseases like Parkinson's. The patent office intended none of
this, either -- someone forgot to require the correct legal disclaimers during
nearly six years of patent review. Greenpeace, the environmental group,
discovered the flawed patent and mounted a noisy protest in February, after
which the office acknowledged its error.

   Moreover, there are no reported techniques for producing people (except for
the time-honored one) and even if there were, European research rules ban human
cloning. If renegade Scottish scientists chose to clone humans anyway, the
scientists would presumably be arrested under anti-slavery laws.

   Whatever anyone did or did not do, this case of "Brave New World" meets the
Marx Brothers will not be untangled anytime soon. The appeals process for
overturning the 1999 patent is sure to take years. An unrelated 1997 patent
involving pig production is flawed in the same way, according to Greenpeace
researchers, who filed an appeal, but the patent office disagrees.

   Patents have long been issued by governments, granting the exclusive right to
profit from commercially applicable inventions. Biopatents, however, are recent
and are based largely on one laboratory mouse. In 1988, Harvard University
patented the first "transgenic" animal, a genetically altered mouse predisposed
to getting cancer. After a patent moratorium in the United States ended in 1993,
biotech investors turned bullish on brave new mice (and cows, pigs and, most
famously, Dolly, the cloned sheep) because of biopatents.

   Patents don't stop with four-legged animals. Private companies and a United
States-British consortium, the Human Genome Project, have been racing for years
to compile the complete catalog of mankind's genes, or genome. It may be only
weeks before a research team claims credit for explicating a human being as a
list of chemical "letters" longer than 800 Bibles.

   In March, President Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain proposed
that data from the human genome be made publicly available without the legal
restrictions of patents.

   Patent lawyers, however, say the Clinton-Blair proposal does nothing to
diminish the value of gene patents. "Making the alphabet publicly available has
not reduced the value of novels," said Colin Sandercock, a patent lawyer
specializing in biotechnology in Washington, D.C.

   But patent law will have to be revised and strengthened in the biotech age,
some lawyers say. In Europe, at least, an appeals process can overturn
challenged patents as in the Edinburgh case. But in the United States challenged
patents simply lead to drawn-out litigation without a clear resolution.

   BIOTECHNOLOGY, meanwhile, has raced so far ahead of patent law that
scientists are encouraged to try to patent everything in their labs. Eric
Jungst, a former director of the ethics program at the Human Genome Project,
compares overly broad patents to the Oklahoma land rush of the 1890's. "You had
every incentive to say, 'I claim everything between here and the river,' no
matter what was in between," said Mr. Jungst, a professor at Case Western
Reserve University in Cleveland.

   Broad patents may grant far-reaching rights at a time when genetic
engineering is still in its infancy. For example, something called germline
manipulation may have more long-term consequences than human cloning, experts
say. A clone, after all, is simply an identical twin separated in time. But
animals, including human beings, whose genetic makeup, or germline, has been
altered pass on a new set of genes to their children and their children's
children, and so, through many generations, have a potential impact on the
species.

   "Narrowly speaking, you can't patent a gene because everyone's genes are
their own," said David Magnus, a philosophy professor who led a recent scholarly
conference at the University of Pennsylvania titled "Who Owns Life?" But, he
said, scientists can and do patent the use of genes and parts of genes known as
"expressed sequence tags."

   In the future, when someone's susceptibility to, say, breast cancer is cured
with a patented gene therapy, Mr. Magnus said, the patient is not patentable nor
are her children.

   But the repaired genes are the scientist's patented genes, he said. Noting
that it would be a "public relations disaster," Mr. Magnus nonetheless noted
that "it may be legally possible for the scientist to restrict your right to
have children and pass on the patented genes, without his permission."

   In the Edinburgh case, the patent application applies to a mousetrap not yet
invented. It was drafted in 1994 without disclaimers like "transgenic non-human
animal" that are routine today. "In the context of this invention," the approved
patent reads, "the term animal cell is intended to embrace all animal cells,
especially of mammalian species, including human cells."

   Moreover, the laboratory techniques described in the patent apply to special
human cells known as stem cells, which are a kind of primordial clay that may
someday be cultured into organ tissue and, perhaps, entire human beings.

   For its part, the European Patent Office said its 200 biopatent examiners
would be even more vigilant in reviewing the 6,500 applications received last
year, up from 5,100 the year before. The Edinburgh application was more than 200
pages.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2000


                             555 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 13, 2000, Saturday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: GROUP HITS HUB DOCTOR FACING FDA SCRUTINY POSSIBLE FINANCIAL CONFLICT
IS SEEN

BYLINE: By Liz Kowalczyk, Globe Staff

BODY:

   A Tufts University doctor who federal officials say risked the lives of
patients in his gene-therapy experiments is facing criticism from the American
Society for Gene Therapy for his investment in the company that sponsors his
research.

   In response to growing concern about researchers' financial conflicts, the
society last month adopted ethics standards saying that investigators in human
trials cannot have equity or stock options in the companies that sponsor their
trials.   When the society's president, Savio L.C. Woo, learned last week that
Tufts cardiologist Jeffrey Isner was cofounder and a major shareholder in the
company that sponsors his experiments, he asked Isner to start complying with
the new guidelines.

   Joining the society of 2,000 members is voluntary, and the group does not
have the power to discipline a member such as Isner or force him to give up
part-ownership in the company, Vascular Genetics Inc. But the society could
revoke Isner's membership, which would be a blight on his professional record.

   A spokeswoman for St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, where Isner runs
his gene-therapy trials, said Isner would not comment but that he's giving Woo's
request "serious and thoughtful consideration."

   St. Elizabeth's research committee, which approved Isner's financial holdings
in Vascular Genetics, will review the hospital's own conflict-of-interest
policies starting next week. St. Elizabeth's also owns a stake in Vascular
Genetics.

   Tufts, too, is promising to review its ethics policy.

   While uneasiness and debate about researchers' financial conflicts are
growing across medicine, Isner's situation is a collision of two particularly
controversial areas: company ownership and gene therapy.

   In gene therapy, doctors inject healthy DNA into very sick patients in the
hope that they can reprogram their genes, reverse genetic disorders, and fight
disease. Isner's high-profile efforts involve growing new blood vessels in
patients with heart disease.

   But most of the trials have been unsuccessful. And since the death last
September of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger at the University of Pennsylvania, the
federal government has asked researchers for more details on side effects and
deaths.

   The US Food and Drug Administration raised its latest concerns last week in a
nine-page warning letter to Isner, charging that he failed to properly report
the death of one patient in the fall of 1998.

   The agency also charged that Isner risked the lives of cancer patients by
enrolling them in the trial, when he should have excluded them since new blood
vessels can feed tumors. One patient with a lung mass was enrolled, anyway, and
his tumor doubled in size within three months.

   Patients were given a form of a drug called Vascular Endothelial Growth
Factor-2, known as VEGF-2, an experimental medication made by a Maryland company
called Human Genome Sciences.

   Human Genome, Isner, St. Elizabeth's, and CATO Holding company created
Vascular Genetics in 1997 to test the drug - and potentially two others - in
humans, according to federal documents. Human Genome owns 32 percent of the
company.

   St. Elizabeth's spokeswoman Sonya Hagopian would not say how much of the
company is owned by Isner or by the hospital, but she said the percentage of St.
Elizabeth's stake "is in the single digits."

   "We take care of patients - that's our job, so there is no way we would
jeopardize safety because of a financial interest," Hagopian said.

   Woo said he has no way to know whether Isner's investments - or those of the
hospital - influenced patient recruitment. But because gene therapy is still a
young field striving for acceptance, he said, the society wants to eliminate any
possibility of monetary influence in his or any other trials.

   In so-called double-blind trials, doctors don't know which patients are
receiving the experimental drug and which are receiving a placebo, reducing the
opportunity for bias.

   But even so, there is growing evidence that financial relationships do
influence the doctor-patient relationship - although no one understands how the
bias creeps in. It may very well be unconscious.

   For example, a 1998 study reported in the New England Journal of Medicine
found that doctors who had a financial interest in a company that made
calcium-channel blockers were more likely to prescribe the controversial drugs
to their heart patients.

   "We want to protect patients from harm and we want to assure the public that
gene therapy trials are being conducted in a responsible manner," said Woo,
director of the Institute for Gene Therapy and Molecular Medicine at Mount Sinai
School of Medicine in New York. "It's very important to deal with both perceived
and real conflict. And the [Isner] situation is certainly not helpful."

   Woo said does not know how many of the society's members are in violation of
the new ethics policy. But financial conflicts are not uncommon since many
researchers founded their own companies to pay for expensive gene-therapy trials
when they could not obtain government funding.

   Dr. Ken MacDonnell, chairman of medicine at St. Elizabeth's, said Isner fully
disclosed his financial interests at the start of the trial. The hospital's
research committee approved him as the principal investigator for the phase 1
studies, during which the drug is given to a small number of very sick patients
with no other treatment options.

   Also, he said, doctors assisting Isner recruited the patients, not Isner
himself.

   MacDonnell said the committee was not planning to allow Isner to oversee the
bigger, more pivotal trials that determine whether a product makes it to market.

   The hospital halted the trials in February because of the FDA investigation.

   "Our view was that he was the most knowledgeable person in the country and
frankly, it was very important to have his expertise to start the development,"
MacDonnell said. "I don't believe there's any significant issue in a phase 1
study under these circumstances, but it would be foolish not to review our
policy."

   When the story about the FDA warning letter broke last week, Woo said he
placed a telephone call to Isner "asking him what he was going to do. I am
certainly hopeful that he will comply," he said.

   Hagopian pointed out that the ethics policy was adopted years after Isner
began his trials, and that the society "doesn't offer guidance to any
investigator currently in this situation."

   Dr. Theodore Friedmann, a member of the society's ethics committee, said that
Isner could sell his share of Vascular Genetics or appoint a substitute
investigator if and when the gene-therapy trials resume.

   "Many patients in many studies have had adverse effects," he said. "If hasn't
been at all clear whether any of these adverse effects have been caused by the
financial involvement of investigators. But it's a question and it's a question
we ought to ask ourselves.

   He added that "these patients ought not to be given the added burden of
trying to decide if a doctor has financial ties that are going to interfere with
his clinical judgment."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000


                             556 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 13, 2000, Saturday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR;
INCOMPLETE GENE THERAPY STORIES CAN BE HARMFUL

BODY:

   I WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON THE REPORT "HUB SCIENTIST UNDER FIRE ON GENE
THERAPY" (PAGE A1, MAY 3), WHICH DETAILS ALLEGED VIOLATION OF FEDERAL RESEARCH
RULES BY DR. JEFFREY ISNER, A CARDIAC SURGEON FROM ST. ELIZABETH MEDICAL CENTER.

   As a scientist in a Boston-area institution, I am following Isner's research,
which requires endless hours of experimental work, commitment, and persistence,
as well as resources and financial aid.

   Recently, Isner's group discovered endothelial cells, which line all the
blood vessels in our body, circulating in the bloodstream. This finding has an
enormous clinical potential as a source of cells to repair damaged blood
vessels.   Even an extensive reviewing process cannot ensure that a treatment
based on Isner's finding can cure a disease. But it can ensure that the
treatment has the potential to succeed where others have failed and will bear no
harm to the patients.

   Tragic events when patients die during experimental treatments need to be
medically evaluated.  Likewise, reports on experimental medical approaches
should be carefully reviewed and draw a broad picture of the treatment.

   Obviously, Isner and his colleagues at St. Elizabeth will suffer because of
an unbalanced report. The entire biomedical scientific community, which needs
financial and political support, will be impaired. But those who may suffer the
most are the patients, who have high expectations from new therapeutic
strategies after other treatments could not help them. After all, new strategies
are the best scientists and physicians can offer for diseases that cannot be
cured today.

   SHAY SOKER

   Brookline

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000


                             557 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     May 13, 2000, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Aerobics class aids teacher;

BYLINE: AMY SCHERZER, of The Tampa Tribune;

BODY:


   HYDE PARK - Exercisers at Xtreme Health and Fitness rally for their
instructor and "Relay for Life"  on May 19 and 20.

   Every Tuesday and Thursday morning Laurie Brecken-Paulk, 40, taught BodyPUMP,
a weight-based  aerobics class at Xtreme Health and Fitness.

   Other days, she taught a class called Butt Blast or led a step circuit class
at the South Howard  Avenue gym. To say she was in excellent shape would be an
understatement.

   Until August, when a persistent cough sent her to the doctor. At first, sinus
problems were  considered, because she was so fit. Instead she was diagnosed
with stage IV bronchial carcinoma,  lung cancer.

   Just six months earlier, she and Chuck Paulk married and began renovating a
Sunset Park  fixer-upper.

   "They were on top of the world," says her friend and boss at Xtreme, Deb
Zinovoy. "Then  devastation."

   The Paulks' first decision was to visit the Simonton Institute in Santa
Barbara, Calif., for a  mind/body adjustment. There, imagery, meditation and
healing techniques set them on a course for  physical and spiritual recovery.

   Then the game plan got aggressive. Gene therapy at Vanderbilt University;
radiation treatment at  H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center. By January she was trying
three or four different types of  chemotherapy "cocktails."

   Last month, joint pain brought her in for a bone scan which showed a
fractured hip. The disease  had spread to the bone. On April 27, the Paulks flew
to Munich, Germany, for hypothermia treatment,  where heat is combined with
chemotherapy.

   THROUGH IT ALL, said Zinovoy, "Laurie is keeping a perfectly positive
attitude. She is such an  amazing person."

   Six weeks ago, Zinovoy called the American Cancer Society to see how the
class could make a  contribution for Brecken-Paulk. Development specialist Jenna
Felder told her about the "Relay for  Life," the all-night, noncompetitive,
18-hour relay on May 19 and 20.

   Participants can walk or run on the Pepin/Rood Stadium track at the
University of Tampa.  Registration is $ 15; each participant is asked for a $
100 donation.

   "That means raising just $ 10 from 10 people," Felder said. "Deb jumped on
the bandwagon, and  organized three teams from Xtreme."

   Each team picks a name and a theme - football, casino, circus, luau, Santa's
Helpers - and they  decorate their "camp site" along the track, Felder said.

   There will be music and comedy entertainment on a stage throughout the night,
"plus a hula-hoop  contest, balloon toss, pie-eating ... crazy carnival type
games that anyone is willing to do at 4  a.m.," said Felder.

   Cancer survivors are invited to take the first lap, known as the Survivor's
Victory Lap, at 6  p.m. Felder said they don't have to be on a team, and they're
invited to a dinner reception with  their caregivers at 7 p.m., donated by H.
Lee Moffit Cancer Center.

   A luminary ceremony is scheduled for 9:30 p.m. Candles will be lit around the
track to honor or  remember someone touched by cancer. Luminaries can be
purchased for $ 10 or three for $ 25.

   Xtreme's teams will host an aerobic class at 9 a.m. on the field, followed by
a yoga and  relaxation class at 10 a.m. During the closing ceremonies at 11
a.m., prizes will be awarded to the  team that raised the most money.  Amy
Scherzer covers schools and news of South Tampa and can be reached at (813)
286-0838.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 CANDACE C. MUNDY, Tribune photo Deb Zinovoy, coordinator of the Xtreme Health
and Fitness gym, lights a candle this week for her friend Laurie Brecken-Paulk.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2000


                             558 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                    MAY 12, 2000 Friday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES YO!; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY & 'TIME CODE' WAIT FOR NO MOVIEGOER

BYLINE: Gary Thompson, Daily News Movie Critic

BODY:

   Hollywood goes digital in "Time Code," a movie that (jargon alert) offers a
new paradigm of continuous takes, quadraphonic cinema and real-time narrative.

   The movie shows what happens when digital moviemakers are liberated from the
constraints of celluloid, free to drop many of the old, tired cues and
techniques used to herd audiences, like so many cattle, through easily grasped
stories.

   I don't have much to add, except maybe "Moo."

   "Time Code," with its multiple screens of jabbering actors and uninterrupted
footage, was more than my bovine brain could handle. Or cared to.

   Perhaps the lesson we learn in "Time Code" is that just because technology
can take us to new places doesn't mean we should necessarily go there. Consider
the missile defense system, for instance, or gene therapy, or Jar-Jar Binks.

   The big innovation on display in "Time Code" is the continuous, uninterrupted
90-minute take (film can only shoot nine minutes at a time).

   I'm not sure this is progress. The continuous take violates what I call the
Uncle Bob rule of photography. Your Uncle Bob shows up at a party with a video
camera, downs a few Buds, starts shooting and doesn't stop until he gets a
finger cramp, or until Aunt Harriet screams "Turn that f- - - - - thing off."

   Later, Uncle Bob pops the tape into the VCR. What follows is a stupefying
work of apparently infinite length, during which people discreetly excuse
themselves and never return.

   "Time Code" feels like an Uncle Bob extravaganza - a wedding, bar mitzvah,
birthday party and baby video, all piled on top of each other, arranged so you
can watch all four at once.

   In fairness, that doesn't give director Mike Figgis his due. What he's done
is fairly ingenious - created four movies, each shown in a different quadrant of
the screen, each story closely related to the others.

   The whole things unfolds in real time: It's 90 minutes in the life of a
hectic movie studio, where moguls listen to ideas, actors audition for parts,
executives argue about story ideas and everybody runs off to the bathroom to
snort cocaine.

   You can see how enormously difficult this blending of four movies must have
been to stage. Characters run from one movie to another, which means that Figgis
had to carefully map and sequence each of his four movies in order to preserve
the illusion that everything is happening simultaneously - a point he
underscores by staging periodic earthquakes that rattle all four movies at once.

   It's very confusing, but Figgis helps a little by using sound to direct
viewers' attention - he raises the volume on the quadrant with the crucial
information, lowers it on the others.

   The fact that he was able to do it all is worthy of applause, but it's the
execution and not the result we feel like applauding.

   That, and Figgis' good humor about the whole thing. "Time Code" would be
insufferable if Figgis approached the project like some self-aggrandizing
revolutionary heralding the demise of "establishment" filmmaking.

   He acknowledges this in "Time Code," when a pretentious young filmmaker
pitches studio executives on an idea that sounds very much like the premise for
"Time Code."

   This is Figgis poking fun at himself - his way of saying that it's OK to
laugh at the indulgence of it all.

   To his credit, Figgis downplays the Momentous Cinematic Event aspect of the
piece. In the end, "Time Code" only makes the same modest demand that other
summer movies make: sit back, enjoy the ride.

   My only advice to the avante-garde: Pack some Advil.

   Time Code

   Grade: C

NOTES: BIG FAT FRIDAY
movies

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
Salma Hayek (top left), Jeanne Tripplehorn (top right), Saffron Burrows with
Kyle MacLachlan (bottom right) and Stelllen Skarsgard are part of the "Time
Code," a complicated story told in four sections of the movie screen

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002


                             559 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 12, 2000, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN'S TACKLES GENE TRANSPLANTS FOR DIABETES

BYLINE: ANITA SRIKAMESWARAN, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation has given local researchers $ 10 million to
work on the complex task of finding a gene therapy cure for the disease, which
affects more than a million Americans.

   Peter Van Etten, president and chief executive officer of the foundation,
announced yesterday that researchers from Children's Hospital and the University
of Pittsburgh have been awarded the funds to establish the JDF Center for Gene
Therapy Approaches to Type I diabetes.

   "A cure is indeed possible and may well be imminent," Van Etten said,
describing the center as "quite an extraordinary undertaking."

   The grant is one of the largest the foundation ever has given to an academic
institution.

   Of the 30,000 people diagnosed with Type I, or juvenile, diabetes every year,
13,000 are children.

   Experts believe that in Type I diabetes, the immune system destroys the islet
cells in the pancreas that produce insulin, which is needed to regulate blood
sugar. People with the disease must check blood glucose levels several times a
day and inject themselves with insulin to keep their sugars within normal
ranges. Even when treated, diabetes can lead to blindness, kidney problems and
circulation difficulties.

   Pancreas transplants are being performed in some adult diabetics, usually
along with kidney transplants, because of the kidney damage that is one of the
dangerous complications of diabetes. After these transplants, patients must take
anti-rejection drugs, which themselves have long term-side effects.

   For that reason and because the need far exceeds the supply of donor organs,
pancreas transplants are not considered a good treatment for children.

   The new center's mission is to develop a way to transplant pancreatic islet
cells in children.

   With the backing of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation grant, the next five
years of lab and animal research could pave the way for human trials of the gene
therapy techniques, said director Dr. Massimo Trucco, who is also chief of
immunogenetics at Children's Hospital.

   "I am confident that islet transplant will soon be the real alternative to
insulin injections in children," Trucco said.

   But first scientists must overcome several obstacles.

   Not only does it take three to four donor pancreases to gather enough cells
for an islet transplant, but even then it's hard to transplant the cells.

   The recipient's immune system will quickly reject the foreign cells unless
the patient is given drugs to suppress the attack -- yet those same drugs are
toxic to the highly sensitive islet cells.

   Some researchers at the JDF Center will try to expand the number of islets in
the lab so that a single donor can provide cells for multiple transplants,
Trucco said.

   Trucco said he will then try to manipulate the genetic material within the
islet cells to make proteins that fend off the immune system's assault. These
special proteins may be able to block the biochemical pathways that destroy
cells during an immune attack.

   Another potential defense will be to manipulate genes within dendritic cells,
which are scout-like immune cells that show warrior immune cells what to attack.
The scientists will try to make the dendritic cells signal to the immune system
that the foreign islets are not a threat, thereby warding off a full-blown
assault.

   Genes must get inside the islet and dendritic cells to generate the
protective proteins.

   To do this, the genes will be attached to a virus that has been engineered so
that it cannot cause harm. These viruses will retain their natural ability to
get inside a cell, but will not have the ability to multiply and spread. Once
the passenger genes hooked to the virus get inside an islet or dendritic cell,
the genes should behave like factories and make the desired proteins.

   One of the challenges is to find a viral carrier, also known as a vector,
that can effectively enter cells, is large enough to carry passenger genes and
will not stimulate an immune reaction to itself. In mouse experiments, the best
vector has been a much-modified version of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

   But, Trucco noted, "that will be difficult to use in humans, for obvious
reasons."

   Adenovirus, a cause of the common cold, also has worked well in animal
models, but the virus incites a strong immune response.

   This was the vector used in the University of Pennsylvania's studies of gene
therapy for a rare liver disorder, which led to the death of one participant
last September, in part from a reaction to the excessive quantity of the virus
he received.

   The answer for diabetic patients could be a virus that is harmless to humans,
known as adeno-associated virus, or AAV. However, it is not as effective at
getting inside insulin-producing cells.

   Even if the AAV can be designed to get inside the cells, the attached genes
may not start working quickly enough to do the job. "You need a couple of weeks
before the gene is really producing the protein product you need," Trucco
explained, "and in two weeks, the islets are already gone."

   Trucco said researchers in Edmonton, Alberta, may have found a combination of
immunosuppressive drugs less toxic to the islet cells. If that work holds up, it
may be possible to give the medications for a short time until the proteins can
take over.

   Trucco said that safety is the paramount concern of the researchers,
especially because the patients are children.

   The advantage of the center's approach, he said, will be that genetically
treated cells, rather than a gene-carrying virus itself, will be injected into
patients, so the risk of virus exposure will be reduced.

   "The only virus that's there is already in the cells and it will never leave
the cells," he said.

   A similar lab-based gene therapy technique was used to successfully treat
three infants with a rare immunological disease, according to a report in an
April issue of Science. French researchers took stem cells from each child's
bone marrow, treated the cells with a virus carrying a gene to supply a missing
protein and then gave the cells back to the children.

   All are now healthy.

   Another branch of the Children's project will concentrate on gene therapy for
sensory nerve degeneration, a complication of diabetes. Joseph Glorioso, a
co-director of the center and chairman of the molecular genetics and
biochemistry department at Pitt's School of Medicine, will use a vector made of
modified herpes virus to deliver growth factor genes to nerve cells.

   Transplant pioneer Dr. Thomas Starzl is a co-director of the new diabetes
center.

   He raised the possibility that gene manipulation of pigs and other animals
could one day lead to a ready source of islets and other tissues suitable for
transplantation into humans.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000


                             560 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe



                     May 11, 2000, Thursday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: HMO BILL REMAINS STALLED IN CONGRESS AS LAWMAKERS DISAGREE ON KEY
POINTS

BYLINE: By Bob Hohler, Globe Staff

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - Russia has changed leaders, America has chosen two presidential
nominees, and the world's first successful gene therapy has unfolded since the
US House and Senate last year agreed to iron out differences in their competing
plans to regulate the nation's health care industry.

   Seven months ago, after the House followed the Senate in passing a version of
the Patients' Bill of Rights, there were 22 issues on the table. Yesterday, 17
issues remained in dispute. No significant progress has been achieved in more
than a month.   And as the pressures of election-year politics steadily rise,
the prospect of Congress producing a landmark agreement on how health care
should be provided to tens of millions of Americans is fading. Both Republican
and Democratic negotiators agree that fewer than 50 legislative days remain
before they run out of time to act in the 106th Congress.

   President Clinton, irked by the apparent stalemate and eager to make sweeping
changes in the health-care system a centerpiece of his legacy, has summoned to
the White House today the leaders of the closed-door negotiating conference,
including Massachusetts Senator Edward M. Kennedy.

   The White House said Clinton, whom some critics have accused of clouding the
issue by separately campaigning for an ambitious prescription drug plan, will
call on the negotiators to quickly resolve their differences or risk a backlash
from voters who want tougher regulations on health maintenance organizations.

   Neither side has accused the other of acting in bad faith. But negotiators
remain divided on nearly every pivotal issue, most notably whether the federal
protections should cover all 161 million Americans with health insurance or just
the 48 million consumers whose medical coverage is exempt from state regulation.

   "I am disappointed and concerned by the slow pace of the conference," Kennedy
said yesterday. "Every day of delay means that more patients and their families
will suffer."

   Aides to the 32 negotiators continue to wrangle privately. But the lawmakers
have not met formally since April 13. And no meeting is scheduled.

   The lull poses a sharp contrast to the hoopla on Capitol Hill in October
after the House broke a decade-long logjam and approved the most comprehensive
plan to expand federal protections for medical consumers since the advent of
health maintenance organizations a generation ago.

   "I've seen cemeteries that have more activity than this place," the Senate's
Democratic leader, Thomas Daschle of South Dakota, said of the negotiations.

   Republican leaders, who had set March 31 as their goal to complete the
negotiations, said they remain confident that a reasonable compromise can be
forged.

   "The conference committee has made steady progress and finalized bipartisan
agreements on a number of issues," said Gail Osterberg, a spokeswoman for
Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, who is assistant majority leader and the
committee's chairman. "When you consider the enormous differences, the fact that
we've been successful in negotiating these is quite remarkable."

   The negotiators have agreed in principle on regulations that would guarantee
access to reasonable emergency care, permit patients to see pediatricians and
specialists without prior approval from their primary doctors, and allow women
to continue to be reimbursed for care from physicians who have left their health
plan during the patients' pregnancies.

   Left unresolved are such hot-button issues as whether patients could sue
their health plans or obtain independent reviews of their providers' decisions.

   "We have not even begun to discuss the critical issues of health plan
accountability and assuring that all HMO members will be protected by the
reforms," Kennedy said.

   Lawmakers in both parties also expressed concern about the delay, noting that
the legislative calendar soon will be clogged by an effort to pass 13 spending
bills to keep the government running when the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1.

   In addition, GOP leaders questioned Clinton's motive for summoning
negotiators to the White House. Many Republicans have long contended that
Clinton and Democratic leaders are more interested in scoring political points
with the issue than searching for common ground.

   "I think the White House's greatest fear is that a bipartisan managed-care
proposal will come out of Congress this year," said Idaho Senator Larry Craig,
the GOP's policy chief in the Senate. "I think the president is getting into the
middle of it in an attempt to mess it up again."

   Nickles said through his spokeswoman, "It would be very easy to blow up this
process, and we hope that is not the White House's intention."

   But many Democrats believe Republicans are purposefully undermining the push
for broad patient protections.

   "When the March 31 deadline passed us by, it became clear that most
Republicans, and particularly the conferees, are unwilling to empower doctors
and patients to make medical decisions," said Senator John F. Kerry of
Massachusetts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Betty Dizik of Florida spoke at the White House yesterday after
President Clinton announced a plan that will allow Medicare recipients to defray
drug costs. / REUTERS PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000


                             561 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       May 11, 2000 Thursday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. H10

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: HERALD HUNDRED; Biogen plans strategy for the future - Analysts:
Company needs new drugs to buoy stock

BYLINE: By Jennifer Heldt Powell

BODY:

   Sales of most new drugs peak within a few years of being released, but sales
of Biogen's multiple sclerosis treatment, Avonex, are still climbing - though
not as fast as the company hoped - five years after it hit the market.

   The challenge now is for Biogen Inc. to maintain its share of that market
while getting another major drug approved.

   In addition to Avonex, the company receives revenue from a number of licenses
including hepatitis B vaccines and diagnostic products.

   But the company, based in Cambridge, will have to move more drugs into the
market to retain the interest of investors, analysts say.

   Biogen's next likely blockbuster medicine is a psoriasis treatment called
Amevive.

   The drug is headed into final-stage trials on the heels of promising
stage-two results.

   Already recruitment of patients for the trial is ahead of schedule.

   James L. Vincent, Biogen's chairman and chief executive, said he believes
this is because the second-stage trial results were so strong.

   An estimated 2.5 million people seek treatment for psoriasis, an inflammatory
skin disorder characterized by red, scaly, thick patches that can cause
considerable discomfort.

   But even if the drug is as successful as early studies indicated, it won't
hit the market until 2002.

   "That is an issue," said Elise T. Wang, an analyst with PaineWebber in New
York.

   "People like to see things nearer term."

   And while Amevive is moving steadily along, last November Biogen had to halt
trials for another drug, Antova, because of concerns that it could cause blood
clots.

   In all, trials for five diseases were shut down after patients developed
complications. It's not clear, however, whether they were caused by the drug or
by some underlying disease.

   Other drugs in the pipeline include Adentri for congestive heart failure and
gene therapy for liver and lung diseases.

   Biogen took a hit on Wall Street this spring when first quarter 2000 sales
came in lower than expected, and investors began looking at what lay beyond
Avonex.

   "It raised the specter of concern about slowing growth for the product," said
Wang.

   "It's a matter of expectation vs. what's delivered."

   Avonex sales rose 33 percent, to $ 174.6 million, but that was less than
expected.

   Analysts attributed the slowdown to competition, regulatory issues in Europe
and a backlog of multiple sclerosis patients not getting in to see their
doctors.

   But the company is working on improvements to the drug, such as changing the
delivery to an inhaler rather than an injection, which could give it a
tremendous advantage.

   Inhale Therapeutics Inc., of San Carlos, Calif., said recently it had started
early stage trials on an inhalant version of Avonex.

   In addition, a recent study indicated that the drug can help delay the onset
of the disease.

   "You would think that this would spur more of an interest in using the drug
earlier on," Wang said.

   An estimated 300,000 Americans suffer from multiple sclerosis and nearly 200
new cases are diagnosed every week in the United States.

   Multiple sclerosis, a degenerative disease that affects the central nervous
system, usually strikes people in their 20s and 30s. It causes a wide variety of
symptoms, including fatigue, muscle weakness, temporary blindness or double
vision and cognitive impairment.

   In a four-year study cut short in February, the onset of multiple sclerosis
was delayed in patients who were given Avonex after experiencing a symptom of
the disease.

   The study was so successful it was stopped so patients taking a placebo could
be switched to Avonex.

   "This allows us to file for a broadening of our label claims and increase the
target market for Avonex," said James Mullen, Biogen's chief operating officer.

   Biogen, one of the biggest biotech companies in the world, was founded in
1978 by a group of scientists.

   It went public in 1983 but an initial rise in its stock price soured when
profits failed to materialize amid internal rivalries.

   Vincent took over as chief executive in 1984 and began to shape Biogen into a
full-service operation that would develop and sell drugs.

   In June, Vincent will step back from the daily operations of the company and
hand over the reins to Mullen, who will become chief executive. Vincent will
stay on as non-executive chairman.

   Biogen has 1,400 employees in laboratories in Cambridge and the Research
Triangle Park in North Carolina, as well as offices in Austria, Canada, France,
the Netherlands, Switzerland and Great Britain.

   "We've demonstrated in many ways that we could operate at a very excellent
level on a worldwide basis as a fully integrated company," Vincent said. "We've
got a good history of generating novel therapies that have an important impact
on patients."

   Superstar 10 #4

   Biogen Inc.

   Principal business: Develops and markets drugs for human health.

   Headquarters: Cambridge

   Employees: 1,400

   Milestones

   Biogens's Avonex became the world market leader for multiple sclerosis
therapies with sales of $ 621 million, a 55 percent increase over the previous
year.

   The company completed successful phase two clinical tests of Amevive, used to
treat psoriasis, and sent the drug into stage-three trials.

   Broke ground for a 210,000-square-foot research-and-development building that
will house 400 new employees and double the company's Cambridge lab capacity.

   Performance

   Figures in Millions of dollars

   1996

   Earnings - $ 40.5

   Revenue - $ 259.7

   1997

   Earnings $ 89.2

   Revenue - $ 411.9

   1998

   Earnings - $ 138.7

   Revenue - $ 557.6

   1999

   Earnings - $ 220.5

   Revenue - $ 794.4

   Photo Caption: LOOKING AHEAD: James L. Vincent, CEO of Biogen, has seen his
company become one of the world's biggest biotech firms. Staff photo by Jim
Mahoney


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000


                             562 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                     May 11, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Second Team

BODY:

   * Steven Brauer, East Brunswick (N.J.) High. GPA: 4.0.
Grand prize winner, USA Mathematical Talent Search; delegation
leader, Model United Nations; editor in chief, school newspaper;
1,600 SAT.

   * Christopher Carr, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science
& Technology, Alexandria, Va. GPA: 3.95. Designed hydrogen-based
fuel-cell power system for unmanned underwater vehicle; invented
pneumatic glove bio-enhancer for those paralyzed on one side;
Eagle Scout.


   * Kevin Chan, The Bishop's School, La Jolla, Calif. GPA:
3.98. Wrote commands for molecular viewer software that displays
graphic representations of protein structure; soccer, cross-country
teams; 1,600 SAT.

   * Mark Chao, Robinson Secondary School, Fairfax, Va. GPA:
3.9. Research on using adeno-associated virus vector in cancer
gene therapy won clinical chemistry award at Intel International
Science & Engineering Fair; Eagle Scout; co-captain, tennis
team; violist, American Youth Philharmonic.

   * Benjamin Chen, St. Petersburg (Fla.) High. GPA: 4.0.
Research improved blueprint for a universal quantum Turing machine;
assistant concertmaster, All-State Orchestra; founder, Hospice
Teen Council.

   * Alexander Clark, St. Andrew's Episcopal School, Ridgeland,
Miss. GPA: 3.44. Developed school administrative computer system,
computer network, Internet filter and computer security system;
is writing program to predict tertiary structure of a protein.

   * Christen Gray, Lassiter High, Marietta, Ga. GPA: 3.98.
Research on the ability of marine cyanobacteria to live off organic
nitrogen; most decorated and highest-ranking cadet, Lassiter/Pope
JROTC.

   * Daniel Halperin, Paul D. Schreiber High, Port Washington,
N.Y. GPA: 3.9. Research on the protein fetuin's role in protecting
against cell toxins thought to cause cell death in stroke; tuba,
All-State Symphonic Band.

   * Beeneet Kothari, Half Hollow Hills High West, Dix Hills,
N.Y. GPA: 4.0. Math model of HIV was named finalist in Intel Science
Talent Search and Siemens Westinghouse science competitions; student
host, Studio Y cable TV show.

   * Joan Krautmann, Regis High, Stayton, Ore. GPA: 4.0. Led
student drive to improve water quality by labeling storm drains
with warnings against dumping waste; student body president; state
3,000-meter track champion.

   * Jack Miller, Homestead High, Mequon, Wis. GPA: 4.0. Performing
full-length solo classical guitar recital; lead/principal trumpet,
jazz ensemble, chamber and pit orchestras; Eagle Scout; 1,600
SAT/36 ACT.

   * Jaya Padmanabhan, Spackenkill High, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
GPA: 3.94. Played violin with All-Eastern Honors Orchestra at
Carnegie Hall; editor, school newspaper; 1,600 SAT.

   * Marques Redd, Westside High, Macon, Ga. GPA: 4.0. Creating
independent philosophical work; captain, academic bowl and Academic
Decathlon teams; peer review committee, Youth Leadership Bibb
County.

   * Colette Shen, St. John's School, Houston. GPA: 3.9. Research
on using the enzyme adenosine deaminase to affect RNA editing,
protein construction; delegate to International Youth Science
Festival in Seoul, South Korea; 1,600 SAT.

   * Clara Shih, Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy,
Aurora. GPA: 3.9. Developed polyvinylidene fluoride film sensor
to measure structural integrity of bridges; founded Society of
Women Engineers chapter.

   * Shira Simon, Valley High, West Des Moines, Iowa. GPA:
4.0. Protested Christian prayer at Girls State and went on to
be elected governor; Bronfman Youth Leadership Fellow to Israel;
co-chair, Iowa Diversity Conference for Youth.

   * Jeffrey Walker, Green Valley High, Henderson, Nev. GPA:
3.87. Founded 2000 Tomorrows to get more than 80,000 high school
students involved in community service; board of directors, United
Way of Southern Nevada; student body president; captain, soccer
team.

   * Rachel Wellhausen, Dobson High, Mesa, Ariz. GPA: 4.0.
Founded literary arts club; editor in chief, literary newspaper;
president, Constitution-based competition team; president, symphonic
band; 1,600 SAT.

   * Jesse Whidden, St. Edward (Neb.) Public School. GPA:
4.0. Co-created Preserving the Past community Web site; implemented
various family-oriented projects as state vice president of Family,
Career and Community Leaders of America; 36 ACT.

   * Tao Yue, John P. Stevens High, Edison, N.J. GPA: 3.94.
Created UnitStar, a computer program that performs unit conversions,
and was named finalist in Ziff-Davis Shareware Awards; editor
in chief, yearbook; 1,600 SAT.

   <>Third Team<>

   * Lindsay Brillson, New Albany (Ohio) High. GPA: 3.92.
Founded woodwind quintet to perform for seniors and raise money
to fight Alzheimer's; flute soloist, Columbus Symphony Youth Orchestra.

   * Jeremy Farris, Houston County High, Warner Robins, Ga.
GPA: 3.95. Research on fungus as biological control for kudzu
won best of category at International Science and Engineering
Fair; captain, state champ math team; Eagle Scout.

   * Erin Fehn, Bellport High, Brookhaven, N.Y. GPA: 3.93.
Founding member, Brookhaven Youth Orchestra; wrote grant proposal
for K2K -- Kids to Kids Music Mentoring; class president; captain,
cross-country and track teams.

   * Joshua Greenwald, Waterford (Conn.) High. GPA: 4.0. Founded
Project Ezra, a relief organization that shipped $ 15,000 worth
of supplies to Venezuelan flood victims; co-editor in chief, school
paper; president, string orchestra.

   * Julie Hackenbracht, Upper Dublin High, Fort Washington,
Pa. GPA: 3.95. Concertmaster, All-Eastern Honors Orchestra, Philadelphia
Youth Orchestra; captain, tennis team; research on specific gravity
and refraction of light; photo editor, opinions editor, school
newspaper.

   * Byram Karanjia, Marshfield (Wis.) High. GPA: 4.0. Founded
Central Wisconsin Theater for Down's Syndrome Youth; director,
composer, scriptwriter of musical performed by children with the
syndrome; cello, piano awards.

   * Wonha Kim, East Chapel Hill (N.C.) High. GPA: 4.0. Organized
change drive for Hurricane Floyd victims; organized canned-food
drive; initiated youth outreach to nursing homes; honor society
president; student council.

   * Percy Liang, Mountain Pointe High, Phoenix. GPA: 4.0.
Research on using non-dissipative circuits to increase the power
of computers; bronze medal, International Olympiad of Informatics;
director, math and computer science competitions; award-winning
pianist.

   * Michael Mahler, Benilde-St. Margaret's School, St. Louis
Park, Minn. GPA: 4.0. Youngest composer published by GIA Publications,
Catholic liturgical music publishers; student council president.

   * David Matthews, Upper Moreland High, Willow Grove, Pa.
GPA: 4.0. Performed full-length piano concert, including works
by Bach, Rachmaninoff and Chopin; master classes with Andre Watts,
Menahem Pressler; captain, track team.

   * Kelly Merrick, Quincy (Ill.) Senior High. GPA: 3.77.
Co-founder, editor, underground newspaper; research on acid rain's
soil effects; president, honor society and debate team.

   * Elizabeth Paulhus, The Linsly School, Wheeling, W.Va.
GPA: 4.0. Started Kosovar Refugee Fund, raising $ 11,000; editor,
yearbook; captain, soccer team; student council.

   * Jennifer Pelka, Lake Highland Preparatory School, Orlando.
GPA: 3.71. First author, graph theory research published in Congressus
Numerantium; won Intel Young Scientist Scholarship; Girls
Nation.

   * Laura Schoenberger, Uniontown (Kan.) High. GPA: 4.0.
Produced award-winning documentaries on first Holocaust survivors
married in Kansas and on Tuskegee medical tests; student government
president; cable TV reporter.

   * Siddharth Shenai, Detroit Country Day School, Beverly
Hills, Mich. GPA: 3.9. Research on eliminating the error in a
rocket's flight path was Siemens Westinghouse finalist; co-concertmaster,
school orchestra; football, debate teams.

   * John Sheu, Lawrence (Kan.) Free State High. GPA: 4.0.
Started computer club; led grant writing that won $ 89,000 worth
of software; developed, maintains school Web site; Sony Scholar
to Japan; Lawrence Youth Symphony.

   * Eugene Simuni, Midwood High at Brooklyn (N.Y.) College.
GPA: 96.13/100. Research exploring protein transmission of visual
signals to the brain placed fifth in Intel Science Talent Search;
member of national debate team in Russia.

   * Jesse Warren, Roslyn (N.Y.) High. GPA: 3.98. Developed
handbook to guide teachers and students on humanities studies;
cervical cancer research on tamoxifen; editor in chief, literary
magazine; captain, winter and spring track.

   * Jonathan Wu, South Pasadena (Calif.) High. GPA: 4.0.
Helped produce a model of how hepatitis C virus replicates; student
body president; Eagle Scout; captain, tennis team.

   * Linda Zhang, Martin Luther King Jr. Magnet High, Nashville.
GPA: 4.0. Research on using an anti-HIV compound to inhibit HIV
at two places in the life cycle was Siemens Westinghouse finalist;
research on programmed cell death; tennis team; student council.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000


                             563 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                      May 10, 2000 Wednesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Recent ups and downs show gene therapy's possibilities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA

BODY:

   Gene therapy's incredible promise became reality for the first time last
month when French scientists used the much-heralded treatment to cure two
infants who might otherwise have died of a severe immune disorder.

   At the same time, the futuristic therapy's potential pitfalls were
highlighted when the FDA issued a warning to Boston researchers who are using
gene therapy to treat heart disease. The FDA said they violated study protocols
and may have put subjects at risk.

   Experts say the two cases illustrate how far gene therapy has come and how
far it still has to go.

   "Clearly, gene therapy has enormous promise," said Dr. French Anderson of the
University of Southern California and a member of the team that attempted the
first gene therapy in 1990.

   "It has the potential over the next 15 to 20 years - not in three to five
years - to revolutionize medicine. There will be a gene therapy treatment for
most major diseases," he added. "But it also has to be done appropriately."

   The initial goals of those working on gene therapy were to cure such genetic
disorders as Huntington's disease, cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anemia that
are caused by a single defective gene.

   The field has expanded now to where researchers are adding genes to cells to
give new functions to those cells. The idea is to treat diseases that are not
solely genetic in origin, such as heart disease and cancer, for example.

   Gene therapy usually uses genetically altered viruses as vectors to carry DNA
into cells, and a vector called the adenovirus, or common cold virus, was
implicated in the death of an 18-year-old Pennsylvania subject last fall.

   In France, the treatment involved removal of the bone marrow from so called
"bubble babies" whose immune systems were not working because of a defective
gene.

   When the bone marrow was removed, doctors isolated the stem cells, used a
virus to infect the stem cells with the normal gene, and then reinfusing the
stem cells into the bloodstream, where they were able to generate the healthy
cells needed for a functioning immune system.

   Experts say the experiment, published April 28 in the journal Science, was
the first clear success for gene therapy, although others, including studies by
Dr. Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, have been
promising.

   "He has been reporting his results on a regular basis and they are very
exciting," Anderson said.

   But it was Isner who got in trouble with the FDA, which said he violated
study protocols.     Isner's work involves injecting a genetically engineered
DNA known as vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, into the hearts of
patients with severe, untreatable heart disease. It then causes them to grow new
blood vessels.

   Because the genetic material is injected directly into the heart muscle, no
virus is needed.

   At Genzyme in Cambridge, researchers are experimenting with gene therapy to
cure melanomas. A trial is underway at Massachusetts General Hospital.

   The company has also been working on gene therapy treatments for cystic
fibrosis and several rare genetic disorders.

   "If we can develop platform technologies for one, it could be applied to many
of them without us having to reinvent the wheel each time," said Richard
Gregory, vice president for gene therapy.

   Dr. Frank Haluska of Dana-Farber-Partners Cancer Care, who heads the
company's melanoma trial, said treating cancer with gene therapy appears more
difficult than treating genetic diseases.

   "It is not a single genetic defect causing any cancer," he said. "It is a
constellation of defects. It is unlikely that replacing any single gene will
cure the cancer."

   In his study, the idea is to introduce melonoma molecules into cells of
patients to stimulate immunity to those molecules.

   "I think there's a lot of promise there," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000


                             564 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                      May 10, 2000 Wednesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 023

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Experiment on immune disorder gives hope

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA

BODY:

   When it was reported last month that gene therapy had cured two infants with
"bubble boy disease" in France, the worldwide network of parents of such
children started buzzing.

   "Everybody is very excited and wondering if its going to be able to help
them," said Stan Graziano of Atkinson, N.H   His son, Joe, 7, has a similar
although less severe form of immunodeficiency than the children in France.
Graziano heads the New England Primary Immune Deficiency Network, which runs
support groups and raises money for research on primary immunodeficiency
disorders, which afflict 500,000 Americans.

   "I'm on an e-mail group with a number of patients and they're all trying to
understand the science right now and wondering if it will help their condition,"
he said.

   Joe, who is in second grade, is able to live a near-normal life, playing
baseball and soccer, although he must take antibodies intravenously once a month
and antibiotics three times a week. But he is at higher than usual risk for
developing cancer and is subject to a host of viruses that don't harm normal
children.

   Although his condition is less serious than severe combined immune
deficiency, or SCID - the genetic illness that was cured by the French gene
therapy experiment - there is a chance that a similar treatment could help Joe.

   There are about 80 different primary immunodeficiency disorders, and one
treatment is not expected to fit all.

   But the success of the French experiment "is on the path to helping him,"
said Joe's father.

   Even if Joe doesn't end up being helped, Graziano said he's confident that
gene therapy is going to cure many diseases in time.

   "There are dozens or hundreds of genetic illnesses that this technology may
be able to cure within 50 years," he said.

   Information on PI disorders may be found on Graziano's Web site:
www.tiac.net-users-jcfco-nepin. His group is associated with the Jeffrey Modell
Foundation, which supports gene therapy research on PI disorders and will meet
in Boston May 15 at the Hynes Convention Center.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000


                             565 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                 May 10, 2000, Wednesday, Orange County Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: O.C. BUSINESS PLUS;
 ORANGE COUNTY BRIEFLY;
 JAPANESE DEAL GIVES NEXELL SHARES A BOOST

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

BODY:


   Nexell Therapeutics Inc.'s surging stock made another strong advance Tuesday
after the Irvine company said Japan's largest maker of distilled spirits will
sell Nexell's biotechnology products in Asia.

   The stock, which has more than quadrupled so far this year, moved up 28%
during the session before settling back to $ 5.66, a gain of 64 cents, or 13%,
in heavy Nasdaq trading.

   Nexell, which develops cell therapies for cancer and other diseases, will get
a "multimillion-dollar" payment from Takara Shuzo Co., which will be the
exclusive distributor of Nexell products in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and
China.

   The two companies also will jointly develop genetic technology to treat
medical problems.

   Takara Shuzo, based in Kyoto, said last month it would set up a gene-mapping
unit to compete with European and U.S. rivals such as PE Corp.'s Celera Genomics
subsidiary. It already sells DNA chips, or glass slides containing gene
fragments used to identify genes that play a role in diseases.

   Nexell's stock climbed 55% Friday on news that the company's product was one
of the key components in a groundbreaking gene therapy used by French scientists
to treat three babies with "bubble boy disease," a disorder that keeps newborns
from developing a complete immune system.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000


                             566 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 9, 2000, Tuesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: HEALTH/SCIENCE; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY REDIRECTS FOCUS ON SAFETY OF ALL RESEARCH

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Allegations of misconduct in gene therapy experiments at St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center in Boston and a death after gene treatment in Pennsylvania have
intensified public unease about the new unproven technology, but scientists and
science officials say the problems reflect a much broader concern about the
safety of all research on human beings.

   They say the public shouldn't conclude that gene therapy researchers are
particularly lax or the technology is inherently dangerous. Instead, regulators
are growing less tolerant of exposing people to hazardous research of all kinds,
and the high profile field of gene therapy is just caught in the spotlight.
"This is a problem of clinical medicine, not a problem of gene therapy," said
Dr. Harold Varmus, until recently the director of the National Institutes of
Health.

   He was referring to allegations that gene therapy researchers at the
University of Pennsylvania had failed to take proper precautions in an
experiment that caused the death of an 18-year-old volunteer last September.

   But Varmus' statements could equally apply to the Food and Drug
Administration's harsh warning letter to Dr. Jeffrey Isner, a heart researcher
performing gene therapy research at St. Elizabeth's. The FDA accused Isner, who
is also at Tufts University, of failing to report one death properly and
endangering patients' lives in research designed to see if gene implants can
grow new blood vessels in the heart.

   A St. Elizabeth's spokeswoman said yesterday that Isner has already given his
responses to the April 28 warning letter alleging that Isner and his
subordinates had violated regulations on a number of grounds, including failing
to monitor some volunteers' health closely enough, and admitting a patient into
a trial who should have been excluded for health reasons.

   Gene therapy, which attempts to reprogram patients' DNA to reverse genetic
disorders and fight disease, has had little to boast about despite a great deal
of hype and investment since the 1980s. Only last month, researchers claimed
their first big success as gene therapy apparently restored normal immune
systems to two French babies born with a rare, lethal immune disease sometimes
called the bubble boy disease.

   But gene therapy pioneer Dr. W. French Anderson of the University of Southern
California said people such as Isner are making more progress than they get
public credit for.

   Anderson predicted that the federal investigation of Isner's work by the FDA
and the Office of Protection from Research Risks will determine that there is "a
lot of smoke and minuscule fire."

   "There do appear to have been infractions with the Tufts program, but Isner
is a highly respected individual," Anderson said, adding that Isner and
colleagues "have extraordinarily exciting results" in improving blood flow in
the heart.

   Anderson contended that Isner's results in tests aimed at growing new heart
vessels to bypass clogged ones are among the most promising so far in the
decades-long history of gene therapy research.

   The federal official in charge of protecting human test subjects, however,
said it's too soon to absolve Isner. Gary Ellis, the director of the Office of
Protection from Research Risks, said there is an "open investigation" underway
into the St. Elizabeth's gene research.

   In an effort to shore up protection of patients in gene therapy trials, the
FDA and the NIH, of which Elllis is a part, announced in March they will require
sponsors to submit monitoring plans. Under the plans, research sponsors would
choose people to serve as monitors, making sure the well-being of volunteers is
being protected and that the trial is being carried out according to the
protocol.

   Ellis said in an interview that "the concern over human gene transfer
experiments gained greater currency because of the mounting concerns about human
experimentation in general."

   "We are collectively coming to grips with what it means to take the human
subjects regulations seriously," Ellis said. For example, Ellis' office halted
all clinical research at Duke University School of Medicine for several days
after a probe found violations of human subjects protection.

   His office in the last five years has found commonly occurring lapses in
protection of human subjects. The two surprises were the breadth of the problems
across so many research institutions, and how fundamental the shortcomings are,
Ellis said.

   Regulations to minimize risk to human volunteers are enforced by the FDA and
the Office of Protection from Research Risks, but the day-to-day monitoring of
such research is the task of each research facility's institutional review
board.

   George Annas, professor of health law at the Boston University School of
Public Health, said that many researchers see human subjects regulations and
review board requirements "like hurdles you jump through before you can do
research."

   "Most [researchers] haven't taken the regulations very seriously," Annas
added, "because there really aren't any serious consequences to investigators."

   Anderson, the gene therapy pioneer, noted that the spotlight on the field
comes just as the first success has been recorded - gene implants in France that
appear to have cured two young girls of severe immune deficiency.

   "In the long run, I think all of this super-careful scrutiny is a good
thing," Anderson said, "because it does look like gene therapy is starting to
turn the corner. It will be done better" because of the glare of regulatory
attention.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000


                             567 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                       May 9, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Part 1; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: TEAM DECODES DOWN SYNDROME CHROMOSOME

BYLINE: PAUL JACOBS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   The international Human Genome Project reported Monday that it has decoded
the human chromosome responsible for Down syndrome, the most common genetic
cause of mental retardation.

   The "essentially finished" genetic code of chromosome 21, published in the
journal Nature, is viewed as an important step by genetics researchers because
of the new insights it offers into a disorder that strikes indiscriminately
every racial and ethnic group in the world.

   In the United States alone, more than 350,000 individuals have Down syndrome.
One child is born with the condition in every 700 to 1,000 births.

   These individuals often suffer from a variety of medical problems in addition
to retardation, including heart defects, blockages in the digestive tract, and
lung infections. They also have a high incidence of leukemia.

   Most people with Down syndrome have an extra copy of chromosome 21 in every
cell in their bodies, and identifying all the genes carried on that chromosome
will help scientists understand the disorder and its many variations.

   "We will not have a gene therapy tomorrow as the result of finding the
sequence today," said Roger H. Reeves, a geneticist at Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine. "But it will allow the research community to greatly focus
on a small set of genes as the primary cause of what goes wrong in Down
syndrome."

   This is the second chromosome that the publicly funded Human Genome Project
has deciphered so far, and it is the smallest of all the human chromosomes.

   Deciphering or sequencing a chromosome means determining the order of
millions of chemical building blocks in DNA, the molecule that carries the
genetic code. The information will help scientists discover the number,
placement and function of genes--long stretches of DNA that most often contain
the directions for manufacturing one or more proteins needed for growth and
maintenance of health.

   Scientists believe that cracking the genetic code will lead to new treatments
and methods of diagnosis for many human ills, including cancer and heart disease
and perhaps the effects of aging itself.

   The 16 centers in the international public consortium announced separately
that they have all but completed their "working draft" of the human genetic code
and are beginning to fill in the missing pieces to produce a more finished
version of all the human chromosomes by 2003.

   The first draft, expected to be available on a public Web site in June, will
include 90% of the code from a reference set of 24 chromosomes--Nos. 1 through
22 plus the X and Y chromosomes that determine gender--drawn from 10 anonymous
donors.

   The announcements come amid growing expectations that a biotech company,
Celera Genomics, will announce its draft of the genome--the entire genetic code
of an anonymous individual--in the next several days.

   The tension of competition is running particularly high this week, near the
start of the most important annual genome conference, which begins Wednesday at
the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, a major research and meeting center on Long
Island, N.Y.

   Researchers with the public project admit that the timing of the
announcements is not a coincidence. The findings in the chromosome 21 paper will
appear in the May 18 edition of Nature, but an electronic version was released
Monday, after news conferences by researchers at genome centers in Japan and
Germany who released the results.

   Most startling in the chromosome 21 findings is the relatively small number
of genes found on the chromosome--far fewer than the amount of DNA present would
indicate. The Human Genome Project scientists estimate that there are a total of
225 genes on chromosome 21, compared with 545 on chromosome 22, the only other
chromosome to have reached this stage of completion.

   Based on those results, the researchers now say there may be only 40,000
human genes--far less than the 100,000 usually estimated. That opens up whole
new questions about how genes operate.

   Large chunks of both chromosomes 21 and 22 remain incomplete because some
sections of DNA are impossible to sequence using current technology, which is
why they are considered "essentially finished" rather than totally complete. But
the areas that are sequenced contain almost all the genes.

   The findings on chromosome 21 provide a solid basis for understanding Down
syndrome and other conditions, said Dr. Julie Korenberg of Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center in Los Angeles and a professor of pediatrics and human genetics at UCLA.

   "It's not an accident that the two smallest chromosomes were the first
sequenced," she said. Because the two are so different, they give scientists a
view of how genes are organized into varying regions. "Chromosomes are not just
strings of genes," she said.

   For those with Down syndrome and their families, the growing knowledge about
the relatively small number of genes on chromosome 21 offers cause for
hope--opening up a world of possible intervention to boost intelligence and
prevent disease even after birth.

   "How many IQ points would it take to give large numbers of children with Down
syndrome the ability to function in normal society? Not many," Korenberg said.
"We may be able to improve function in specific areas by understanding one or a
few genes."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000


                             568 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                       May 9, 2000 Tuesday FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 01A

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Map of second human chromosome unveiled;
Genes may offer clues to origins of Down syndrome, epilepsy, Alzheimer's

BYLINE:  Associated Press

BODY:

   In an achievement that could point the way to treatments for a host of
illnesses, scientists have mapped chromosome 21, the smallest human chromosome
and the one associated with Down syndrome.

   It is the second human chromosome whose DNA has been fully deciphered.
Chromosome 22 was mapped last fall.

   "Another volume has just been placed on the shelf. Now we really have to roll
up our sleeves and assess what these genes are doing there, what role they play
in causing disease," said Francis Collins, chairman of the Human Genome Project
at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.

   The German- and Japanese-led team that mapped both chromosomes is part of the
Human Genome Project, a 16-laboratory international effort to decipher
chemically the entire human genetic blueprint. Humans normally are born with 23
pairs of chromosomes, which contain genes made up of DNA.

   The findings will be published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature.

   On Monday, the project also announced that it was moving into the final phase
of cataloging the human genes. Having collected about 90% of the estimated 3
billion letters in the DNA code, the project is moving on to a final "finishing"
phase in which it will attack the difficult sections that remain and proofread
what has already been acquired.

   The genetic code of chromosome 21, now 99.7% complete, is viewed by genetics
researchers as an important step because of the new insights it offers into a
disorder that strikes every racial and ethnic group in the world.

   In the United States alone, more than 350,000 people have Down syndrome, and
one child in every 700 to 1,000 births is born with the condition. In addition
to retardation, these individuals often suffer heart defects, blockages in the
digestive tract and lung infections. Down syndrome also can cause Alzheimer's
disease by age 40 and a high incidence of leukemia.

   Most people with Down syndrome have an extra copy of chromosome 21 in every
cell in their bodies, and identifying all the genes carried on that chromosome
will help scientists understand the disorder and its many variations.

   "We will not have a gene therapy tomorrow as the result of finding the
sequence today," said Roger H. Reeves, a geneticist at Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine. "But it will allow the research community to greatly focus
on a small set of genes as the primary cause of what goes wrong in Down
syndrome."

   Besides Down syndrome, diseases linked to chromosome 21 include Alzheimer's,
epilepsy, Lou Gehrig's disease, manic depression and a certain kind of leukemia.

   The researchers found that chromosome 21 contains far fewer genes than the
545 in chromosome 22, the second-smallest chromosome.

   The relative sparseness of genes in chromosome 21 may mean the total number
of genes in human DNA is under 40,000 -- not the 100,000 or more that had
previously been thought, said Andre Rosenthal, a professor at the Institute for
Molecular Biotechnology in Jena, Germany.

   That means "we are not so different from drosophila" -- the fruit fly -- " or
yeast," Rosenthal said.

   David Patterson, an American scientist involved in the project, said the
chromosome map might allow researchers to home in on specific genes in the
chromosome that cause mental retardation in people with Down syndrome and then
perhaps develop drugs to treat such patients.

   "Once we can find the genes that are important for learning problems, what we
hope is that we'll be able to understand what those genes do and somehow
compensate for having an extra copy of the gene," said Patterson, president of
the Eleanor Roosevelt Institute in Denver and chairman of the science advisory
board of the National Down Syndrome Society.

   Julie Korenberg, a professor of pediatrics and human genetics at the
University of California at Los Angeles, agreed that for those with Down
syndrome, the map opens up a world of possible intervention to boost
intelligence and prevent disease even after birth.

   "How many IQ points would it take to give large numbers of children with Down
syndrome the ability to function in normal society? Not many," she said. "We may
be able to improve function in specific areas by understanding one or a few
genes."

   Rudolph Tanzi, a professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, said the
map could eventually shed light on why people with Down syndrome have low rates
of breast, lung and gastrointestinal cancers.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000


                             569 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                   May 9, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Decode Down Syndrome Chromosome

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

BODY:

   Reaching another milestone in the race to decode the human genome, a team of
principally Japanese and German scientists has essentially completed the DNA
sequence of chromosome 21, a result that sheds light on the workings of Down
syndrome.

   The team is part of the international consortium of academic centers led by
the National Institutes of Health and the Wellcome Trust of London. The
consortium has now completed two chromosomes, numbers 21 and 22, which are the
two shortest of the human complement of 23 pairs.

    Chromosome 21 is best known in the context of Down syndrome. Affected
children are born with three copies of the chromosome instead of the usual two.
Usually a third chromosome is lethal because the extra doses of its genes
derange the carefully balanced economy of the cell.

   The decoded DNA sequence of chromosome 21, being published in this week's
Nature, explains why Down syndrome children escape the usual death sentence,
although at a cost. The chromosome has extremely few genes -- a mere 225,
according to the consortium team's count, in its 33,827,477 decodable units of
DNA.

   Biologists who study Down syndrome do not know whether there is a general
imbalance because of all the extra genes, or whether a handful of specific genes
underlies the 80 or so specific disorders of the syndrome. The decoding of
chromosome 21 at least establishes a catalog of all the relevant genes.

   "So defining the players and the playing field is a very major step that the
Down syndrome community has been working toward for years," said Dr. Roger H.
Reeves, a geneticist at Johns Hopkins University who studies the syndrome.

   Identifying the genes, and when and where they operate, could lay the basis
for someday devising gene therapy for the syndrome, Dr. Reeves said.

   The consortium team estimates that if chromosomes 21 and 22 between them have
an average number of genes, the total number of human genes would be a mere
40,000. Other estimates range from 70,000 to 140,000.

   It may seem extraordinary that with the human genome so close to completion,
the estimates of its number of genes are all over the lot. But recognizing human
genes in the DNA sequence is a rapidly developing art.

   A bioinformatics company called DoubleTwist, of Oakland, Calif., said Monday
that it had downloaded the consortium's human genome data, which at present
cover 80 percent of the genome, and that with its own software it had identified
about 105,000 probable human genes.

   If the higher estimates of human genes are correct, the consortium teams that
analyzed chromosomes 21 and 22 may seem to have been too conservative in its
gene count.

   The Japanese-German team decoded all of chromosome 21 except for the
centromere region, which cannot be tackled by present methods, and 10 small gaps
of particularly resistant sequence, which are being left for analysis later.

   In decoding chromosome 21, the consortium now leads 2 to 0 in the genome race
against its rival, the Celera Corporation of Rockville, Md.  But the score is
misleading because Celera's strategy is to decode all the chromosomes in tandem,
and company officials say they are only weeks away from the goal.

   DoubleTwist's ability to survey the genome is evidence of the impressive
amounts of human DNA data the consortium has been putting into the public
database. The directors of the five leading sequencing centers said today that
they had decoded 16 million units of DNA in overlapping segments that together
covered 85 percent of the human genome. Their project is now moving into the
finishing phase, that of filling the remaining gaps.

   "From my point of view the race is over in that the vast majority of the
human genome sequence is freely available on the web," said Dr. Eric S. Lander,
director of the genome sequencing center at the Whitehead Institute in
Cambridge, Mass.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000


                             570 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                       May 7, 2000, Sunday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: FOCUS; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS;
FOCUS ON: 4/30-5/6 ENTRENCHED TROOPS; LOCKERBIE TRIAL; CARDINAL DIES; SENATE'S
DIGS; GENE MISCREANT; WICKED WORM; ANTIDRUG BUGS; GRIEF'S POWER

BODY:

   World

   An extended tour   The top US commander in Kosovo predicted last week that
NATO troops will have to remain in the Balkans for "at least a generation." That
assessment, from Brigadier General Richard Sanchez, goes well beyond the
predictions of Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, who has suggested a period
closer to five years. Sanchez's comments come as many members of Congress are
expressing concern about the United States' open-ended deployments to Bosnia,
where about 6,000 US troops remain as peacekeepers, and Kosovo, where about
5,600 US troops are stationed.

   Lockerbie relived

   The trial of two Libyans accused in the 1988 bombing of a New York-bound jet
over Lockerbie, Scotland, opened Wednesday in the Netherlands after 12 years of
diplomatic wrangling. The trial began with a video showing the final seconds of
Pan Am Flight 103 as it vanished from radar screens, leaving only a small,
drifting illumination that represented falling debris. Victims' relatives sobbed
as they watched. Libyan nationals Basset Ali al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa
Fhimah, the alleged intelligence agents charged with the murder of the 259
people on board and 11 people on the ground, repeated their innocent pleas, and
sought to shift blame onto Palestinian militants. The proceedings are expected
to last one year. If convicted, the two men could face a life sentence in a
Scottish prison.

   Nation

   O'Connor dies

   Cardinal John O'Connor, who charmed New Yorkers with his wit and warmth while
using his opposition to abortion and homosexuality to make headlines and
chastise politicians, died Wednesday. He was 80. O'Connor was the oldest active
bishop in the United States and one of the country's most influential Roman
Catholics. His health began to fail after he had a brain tumor removed in
August.

   Dig no deeper

   US Senator John McCain, upset at massive cost overruns for the Big Dig tunnel
project through downtown Boston, told project officials Wednesday he may
introduce legislation to ensure no more federal money is spent on it. McCain
made the comment during a hearing of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science
and Transportation that he chairs. McCain, an Arizona Republican, also berated
the project's main contractor for allowing costs to skyrocket. The project,
officially known as the Central Artery/Third Harbor Tunnel Project, originally
was expected to cost $2.6 billion, but the latest federal estimate pegs the
price tag at $13.6 billion. The federal government has earmarked $8.5 billion
for it. Andrew Natsios, the new head of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority,
told McCain's committee the state will not ask Congress for more money.

   Bad gene therapy

   The Food and Drug Administration has accused Jeffrey Isner, a Tufts
University scientist and gene therapy researcher, of failing to follow key
patient safeguards or properly report the death of a volunteer patient, it was
learned last week. Isner, who headed gene therapy trials at St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center, erred when he included in a trial a patient who had a cancerous
tumor - even though it is well-known that gene therapy can cause tumors to grow
- and allegedly failed to investigate and properly report the death of a
patient. Gene therapy attempts to repair or replace abnormal genes by
transferring synthetically manufactured genes into the body.

   No joke

   Computer systems around the world were infected Thursday by an e-mail
computer virus proclaiming "ILOVEYOU" in the subject line. The "lovebug" virus
overwhelmed networks and burrowed into computer hard drives, destroying files
containing photos and video. By some estimates, it infected tens of millions of
computers worldwide, not only spreading by e-mail but through instant messaging
systems that let people chat on the Internet. The virus disabled e-mail systems
on Capitol Hill and in the British Parliament. It shut down at least part of the
State Department's network, and forced big corporations such as Ford Motor Co.
and Lucent Technologies Inc. to shut down their e-mail systems. New Jersey's
state government and government agencies all across the country did the same. By
Friday, copycat versions - including one disguised as a joke and another as a
Mother's Day order - were on the rise.

   Health

   Superbugs thrive

   The results of a state survey released last week show that misuse of
antibiotics may help breed a new generation of superbugs resistant to standard
treatments. The survey, conducted by the state Division of Medical Assistance,
which oversees Medicaid, found that 44 percent of prescriptions written for
76,000 mostly low-income Mass Health Members in 1999 were given without seeing
the patient in an office visit. Researchers also found that about 90 percent of
the antibiotics were prescribed without a lab test to determine the type of
bacteria involved.

   Metro/Region

   Mourning two

   David Stewart, the 12-year-old Cape Cod boy whose battle for experimental
leukemia treatment caught the state's attention, was laid to rest Monday. He
shared a silver casket with his father, William. David died Friday night in his
father's arms, and a short time later, William Stewart hanged himself. "In his
agony, could find no way out. In the end, they are together," Edward Stewart,
William's brother, said. The Stewarts had rallied public support - and with it,
donations - to pay for David's treatment last year, after he was denied Medicaid
funds for antibody-targeted chemotherapy in Seattle. As recently as late
October, David reportedly showed a reduction in his leukemia, giving his family
what proved to be fleeting hope that the $93,000 experimental procedure could
save their son.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. Remembering Theodora, one of 270, is their cause / REUTERS
PHOTO 2. Stewart family steeped in sorrow / GLOBE STAFF/MATTHEW J. LEE 3. Three
little words that always mean . . .

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000


                             571 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                       May 7, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: Q[A]
 DESTINY OF A YOUNG GIANT: PASSING THE TORCH AT AMGEN;
 BIOTECH: GORDON BINDER, WHO IS STEPPING DOWN AFTER 12 YEARS AS CEO, REFLECTS ON
THE INDUSTRY LEADER'S RISE AND WHAT LIES AHEAD.

BYLINE: PAUL JACOBS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   This week, Gordon Binder, chairman and chief executive of Amgen, begins
turning over the reins of the biotechnology giant to his anointed successor,
current President and Chief Operating Officer Kevin Sharer. On Thursday, at the
company's annual meeting, Binder will give up the CEO job. He'll retire from the
chairmanship at the end of the year.

   Binder, who will turn 65 this year, can rightly take credit for taking a
young company that hadn't yet launched its first product to a full-fledged
pharmaceutical company with a pair of billion-dollar-a-year drugs on the
market--Epogen for boosting red blood cells and Neupogen for revving up the
immune system. He leaves the Thousand Oaks-based company with hopes of winning
regulatory approval for four new drugs during the next few years--a long-lasting
form of Epogen plus novel drugs for rheumatoid arthritis, prostate cancer and
breast cancer.

   An electrical engineer by training, Binder has become a champion of the
emerging biotech sector and served as chairman of both the Biotechnology
Industry Organization and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
America. He has led both groups' efforts to extend prescription drug benefits to
Medicare recipients without government-imposed price controls.

   In a recent interview with The Times, Binder reflected on his 18 years at the
company--12 as CEO--and what lies ahead for Amgen and the biotech industry.


   *

   Question: Give us a sense of what you feel were your most important
accomplishments and some of the tough things you were able to survive and
surmount.

   Answer: We began 10 years after Cetus was born and five years after Genentech
was born and became the largest and most successful biotech company, which is
probably the one-sentence summary of our biggest accomplishment of all.

   Adversity included a $ 180-million arbitration loss to Johnson & Johnson in
1991 over an Epogen distribution dispute that was mostly offset by later wins at
arbitration. But when we lost we didn't have that amount of money in the bank,
so that was pretty disheartening when it happened.

   Q: From time to time Amgen was criticized for not having a steady stream of
products ready to move on line. Why was there a hiatus in the pipeline? Can you
describe where you are?

   A: Essentially when we first found Epogen and Neupogen we decided to devote
our entire research and development resources to developing and launching those
just as well and just as fast as we could. And that was a good decision. What it
meant was for a number of years we spent virtually no effort looking for new
products. When we launched Epogen in 1989, we began to get some additional money
for R & D out of its sales growth, and that allowed us to resume efforts to find
and develop new products. It takes eight to 10 years from the very beginning of
research to the launch date of a new product. We started seriously resuming this
effort in 1989, and it is not perhaps too surprising that it took about eight to
10 years before we'll have new product launches to show for it.

   Q: As you know, there has been a surprising amount of stock price volatility,
even reaching the top-tier companies like your own that have great revenue
streams and some nice products on the way. What have we learned about the
biotech industry from the investor's point of view in recent years and
particularly the last several months?

   A: The conclusion is that Wall Street indulges in what is called sector
rotation. That means a particular industry is in favor at certain times and it's
out of favor at other times. And it's really been the industry that's been
affecting our stock price more than our own earnings per share or what we've
been doing. It caused a substantial increase from about last November until
March, and then it caused a partial retrenchment since then, but that was pretty
much across the industry. And it's happened several times in the past, where
biotech was in favor and then biotech went out of favor. And I think the lesson
is this happens every so many years and it will happen the same way in the
future.

   Q: But there is something crazy about it not differentiating between
established companies with real products on the market and those that one could
deem more speculative, that have some prospects but nothing really solid to
point to such as you can.

   A: I think the ones that are either younger or only have early-stage R & D
projects are more volatile than we are. But that means they go up more when the
market for biotech goes up and they go down more when the market for biotech
goes down. They still tend to go up when we go up and vice versa. It's just a
difference in how far up and how far down they go.

   Q: Give us a sense of where the industry is heading. Are we at the point
where there will be lot more established, profitable companies?

   A: I think in terms of new product introductions, there is a massive change
going on. It's been estimated that new product applications to regulatory
agencies like the FDA, that biotech companies will file about as many this year
as the pharmaceutical industry. Now a few years ago it was only a small fraction
of what the pharmaceutical industry had filed.

   Q: Early on your scientists had to do gene sequencing and splicing, and now
these things are automated.

   A: The equipment is far better, and initially we did make DNA by hand
literally. It was the same chemistry that's in the machines today. But today we
make over 10,000 pieces of DNA a year just for our own scientists. In those days
making one was a project.

   Q: Where does the human genome fit into this?

   A: We actually had a major genome program of our own starting a number of
years ago. And we filed patents on some of the results of that. But the best way
of thinking of the genome work is that this is one more tool. It's an important
tool, but it's only one and it works best when it's combined with other tools
that we have when we look for new products.

   . . . I think that joint statement by President Clinton and British Prime
Minister Tony Blair on patenting of genes, which triggered a slide in biotech
stocks was very unfortunate, because all the president and the prime minister
really did was state what was then the existing situation and people thought
that this was some kind of change, because why would they have a press
conference? They weren't actually proposing any change in the present situation
at all. The market reacted out of misunderstanding, really.

   I think the patent office and the courts will sort out what is patentable and
what isn't very nicely. And we don't need any legislation or any new executive
branch initiatives to deal with this.

   One of the requirements to get a patent on anything is that it has to be
useful, and if it has to be useful you have to have some idea of what you're
going to use it for. And if you simply have a sequence of a gene, you don't have
any idea what you're going to use it for. You don't even know if it's in the
kidney or somebody's brain or whatever.

   And most importantly, little pieces of genes should not be patentable,
because you can imagine that dozens of people could get patents to little pieces
of the same gene. Now how would a company like us get a license from each and
every one of them so we could develop anything? It would be an absurdity there.

   Q: You are tremendously profitable at the moment. What are you doing with the
fruits of your success?

   A: Basically we have higher profitability than other pharmaceutical companies
as a percent of sales. And we invest some of that into a higher percent of R & D
as percent of sales than other people have, and part of it drops to the bottom
line as a higher profit as a percent of sales. We need to strike a balance
between the near term and the long term, we need to strike a balance between
shareholder return and investing in the future, and we think we've done that in
the split that we've made of this extra money.

   Q: Do you see gene therapy in Amgen's future?

   A: I don't see it in the near term in anybody's future, but never say never
with regard to science. We made the decision a few years ago to start investing
in that in a small way, and eventually I think it will come. . . . I would be
surprised in 20 years if we did not have one or more gene therapy products .

   Q: There has been, as you know, talk of extending Medicare coverage for drugs
broadly, but there have also been simultaneous talks about price controls. How
do you think this will play out?

   A: We think it's just absurd that Medicare doesn't cover drugs. It makes no
sense to cover all parts of health care except one. More and more, drugs are
going to reduce hospitalizations and reduce surgery. . . . We have one product
under development for treating hyperparathyroidism whose only competition is
going to be surgery. And so it just needs to be covered by the system.

   Suppose I offered an investor an opportunity to invest in a program to
develop a drug that's going to cost $ 500 million and at the end of the 10 years
the government will tell me what my selling price is going to be. I doubt that I
could find any investors who would want to do it. This is going to have a
chilling effect on R & D if they in fact institute any form of government price
controls, no matter how benign.

   There are only about 30 biotech companies that are profitable today of about
1,500, and those others are going to have future cash infusions from investors
if they are going to reach profitability. And those will be very hard to come by
if Congress introduces some draconian price control. It would put some companies
out of business.

   Q: What are the next 10 years going to be like for Amgen?

   A: We have four product candidates in very advanced state of development
which we expect to launch in 2001 and 2002. That will change the nature of the
company. We've had to change our organizational structure, we've had to change a
number of things to go from being essentially a two-product company to a
many-product company.

   Q: At some point do you become more like the traditional pharmaceutical
companies?

   A: We have some characteristics of those companies now, of course, because we
have a fairly large sales force. But I like to think in the world of R & D, we
are still basically a biotech company, and I hope we'll always have many of the
biotech attributes when it comes to the R & D side of the business.

   Q: As you know, from time to time, there has been talk of takeovers of your
company. Is that going to happen in this atmosphere of merging of large
pharmaceutical companies?

   A: No, I don't think so. And the primary reason is that with very few
exceptions people haven't made any hostile attempts and we don't want to be
acquired. . . . I expect the concentration of big pharmaceutical companies to
continue, but I don't see Amgen being acquired.

   Q: What's ahead for you on a personal level?

   A: I want to work but not full time, and I think that work is going to be in
the venture capital world. And it should be medically related, but it could be
diagnostics, it could be an instrument. It wouldn't have to be a therapeutic
biotech product.

   Q: What kind of advice are you giving to your successor?

   A: He's been here for seven years now. So he's more than ready to take over.
I think he knows Amgen's a great company and he knows why it's a great company.
And he has every intention of doing the things that need doing to keep it that
way.

   It would be detrimental for me to step down right in the middle of launching
new products. We didn't want to change horses in the middle of the stream, so to
speak, so now is the ideal time to do it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "I don't see Amgen being acquired," says Gordon Binder, 64, who
is credited with the firm's success.  PHOTOGRAPHER: BRYAN CHAN / Los Angeles
Times

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000


                             572 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          MAY 7, 2000 Sunday D EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: HE IS BUILDING ON HIS SUCCESSES WITH A WINNER IN CENTOCOR UNDER HIS
BELT, ENTREPRENEUR IS EAGER TO START ANEW.

BYLINE: Andrea Knox, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Hubert J.P. Schoemaker has beaten stiffer odds than most people meet in a
lifetime.

   He created one of the world's few profitable biotech companies, Malvern's
Centocor Inc. He also survived brain cancer.

   So now, is Schoemaker, at age 50, ready to rest on his laurels? To bask in
the $28 million worth of Johnson & Johnson stock he garnered when Johnson &
Johnson bought Centocor last fall?

   No. He is starting a new company.

   And, as with Centocor 21 years ago, the Dutch-born, MIT-educated entrepreneur
is once again trying to push back the frontier where science meets business.

   At Centocor, Schoemaker (pronounced SHOO-mocker) plucked the then-exotic
technology of monoclonal antibodies out of research laboratories and turned it
into medical diagnostic agents and drugs.

   With his new Malvern venture, Neuronyx Inc., he hopes to use recent
breakthroughs in knowledge about stem cells, human cells that have not yet
matured to do specialized tasks, to create more effective treatments for brain
diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and multiple sclerosis.

   Founding a biotech company isn't for the faint of heart. Although Centocor is
one of the field's success stories, Schoemaker knows as well as anyone how many
years of research, stabs of disappointment, and millions of dollars it takes to
find out if an idea like his can work.

   He was on the front lines, after all, when Centocor came close to cratering
in 1992, when it failed to win U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for
its first drug.

   Even without such major setbacks, the average biotech needs at least 10 years
and $500 million - of other people's money - from start-up to first product,
says Schoemaker, citing industry estimates.

   Still, when Centocor was sold for $4.9 billion to J&J in October, Schoemaker
had no taste for following it into the corporate fold.

   "My expertise isn't marketing or sales or manufacturing," he says. "I am an
entrepreneur."

   That a successful entrepreneur is starting again would hardly seem
extraordinary, except for the odds against his being here at all.

   Six years ago, he learned he had medulloblastoma, a fast-growing and usually
fatal cancer that strikes several hundred Americans each year, most of them
children. Shortly after he was diagnosed, Schoemaker was told that there were
only 10 adult survivors of this type of brain tumor in the country.

   "Well, I will be number 11," he vowed.

   Today, he is robust and free of cancer, although surgery, chemotherapy,
radiation and a bone-marrow transplant have left their marks: The man who was
once a fine athlete now walks like "a wobbling ship," in his words.

   But his mind is nimble, his handshake firm, and the ascot fluffed inside the
collar of his open shirt gives him a slightly rakish air. His eyes shine and his
big lantern-jawed face beams as he drops into a chair and exults: "It's
wonderful to start a company again."

   Here, in a semi-barren office suite at the Great Valley Corporate Center,
Schoemaker is weaving together the vital strands of his new venture: Putting his
finger on promising stem-cell technologies, snaring a deal-maker from
PaineWebber Inc. and a top researcher from Johns Hopkins University Medical
School to join the management team, tying up the strings on $7 million worth of
initial financing, and gesticulating joyously with his cane as he spouts plans.

   "Here is where the receptionist will sit, when we are big enough to need one.
Our sign will be there. In this room we will have workstations for the
scientists. And here" - a cavernous warehouse festooned with dangling wires and
cast-off file cabinets - "is where the laboratories will be."

   This space will eventually house 40 employees, enough to keep the company
going for three or four years, Schoemaker says.

   The $7 million "friends and family" financing deal that Neuronyx president
Stephen W. Webster expects to close soon will last through late summer, when the
research lab will swing into operation. Schoemaker figures he'll need a $10
million infusion from venture capitalists before the end of the year. By 2002,
he hopes to take Neuronyx public if "the markets are right and we've made enough
progress."

   Schoemaker had nurtured Centocor as it grew from entrepreneurial to
established, but by 1998 he had to accept that it could no longer remain
independent. With profits that year of $192 million on sales of $317 million,
the company had become such a prize that a big drug company would want to buy it
at a price Centocor's board could not refuse.

   As the sale to J&J was being concluded last summer, and Schoemaker
investigated what he could do next, he came to two conclusions.

   First, treatments for conditions such as stroke and incurable diseases such
as multiple sclerosis, and amytropic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig's
disease) were inadequate. The best that medicine could do was keep patients
stable, and often it didn't even do that.

   Second, advances in science and medicine, particularly new knowledge about
stem cells, were suggesting new ways to attack such diseases.

   His own brain cancer had nothing to do with the decision, at least not
consciously, Schoemaker says.

   "I looked at a whole panorama of areas and concluded that the brain is the
most important organ in the body, but the least studied. And I thought if I
could help a multiple sclerosis patient get out of a wheelchair and walk again,
that's what I wanted to do."

   Improved treatments could come in either of two ways, he believes: by finding
a way to change stem cells into therapeutic agents, or by using the cells to
deliver gene-therapy treatments.

   Such ideas aren't unique to Neuronyx. For example, Layton Bioscience Inc. of
Sunnyvale, Calif., also is trying to develop cells for use as therapeutic
agents. Schoemaker said he sees such efforts less as competition than as
validation he is on the right track.

   "What's exciting about stem cells is that, until now, in diseases of the
brain, we have been limited to trying to protect the brain from further damage.
With stem cells, for the first time, we can try to repair some of these
tissues," says Tony W. Ho, the former Johns Hopkins researcher whom Schoemaker
brought to Neuronyx as vice president of research and development.

   For use as therapeutic agents, stem cells would have to be changed in the
laboratory into specialized cells that could provide a damaged brain with
missing ingredients, such as the chemical dopamine in Parkinson's disease
patients. The cells would then be transplanted into the patient's brain.

   Stem cells also are potentially valuable in gene therapy because they tend to
migrate to a damaged area of the brain, Ho says.

   Schoemaker believes that stem cells will prove to be less risky than the
viruses that have been used to deliver gene-therapy treatments.

   Despite recent questions about gene therapy's safety and efficacy, raised by
the death last year of a University of Pennsylvania patient, Jesse Gelsinger,
Schoemaker believes it holds promise. "I have concerns about the risks, but gene
therapy will continue to move forward because it is so incredibly potent," he
said.

   Schoemaker's plan for Neuronyx is audacious, a complete gamble. Every step of
the process has yet to be developed, and proven safe and effective. How
difficult will it be to grow the desired cells? How easy will it be to get the
cells where they are needed? Will transplanted cells reproduce, as theorized, to
provide continuing treatment?

   And equally important, will investors pour in the necessary half-billion
dollars, with no guarantee of even a penny in return?

   Schoemaker has figured in a safety net, of sorts: an agreement to use a
different technology that could yield a profitable new drug within seven years,
rather than the 10 or more needed to develop stem-cell therapies. Neuronyx's
partner will be another biotech, Neose Technologies Inc. of Horsham.

   "It will be difficult," Schoemaker says. "I am excited, but also humbled by
knowing the mountain we have to climb."

   Still, the feeling in the biotechnology industry is that if anyone can plant
a flag on the top of that mountain, it's Hubert Schoemaker.

   "He was critical in the early wave of biotechnology in starting Centocor, but
more so, he was critical in saving Centocor from disaster" in 1992, when the FDA
refused to approve its first drug, says Stelios Papadopoulos, managing director
of SG Cowen Securities Corp. in New York.

   "We thought the company was so damaged it would disappear," says Henri
Termeer, chief executive officer of Genzyme Corp. in Cambridge, Mass.

   Schoemaker slashed staff quickly to save money, going from 1,600 worldwide to
about 600 in less than a year, and formed an alliance with Eli Lilly & Co. that
bought Centocor financial support.

   Schoemaker gives additional credit to advice he got early on from venture
capitalist Bill Hambrecht of Hambrecht & Quist in San Francisco to always have
plenty of money in the till.

   He said financial padding was a critical factor in keeping Centocor going
until the end of 1996, when it finally became profitable on the strength of
ReoPro, a drug that reduces heart-attack risks in certain patients.

   In 1994, having saved Centocor from death, Schoemaker was diagnosed with
cancer and turned his attention to saving himself. He demanded the most
aggressive treatment available, but gives equal credit for his survival to
"tremendous support" from his wife and family, and colleagues at Centocor and
elsewhere.

   Finally, Schoemaker says, "I am religious, I pray a lot. I don't know if it
helps, but here I am.

   If there are times when he is frustrated or depressed at having lost some
physical abilities, he doesn't dwell on it.

   "I think I am Mr. Lucky," Schoemaker says. "Every morning I wake up and say,
'Hello, Mr. Lucky.' "

   A CHRONOLOGY The history of Hubert Schoemaker's Malvern company, Centocor
Inc., reflects a typical biotechnology company's long, uncertain road from
startup to success.

   Mid-1970s: English researchers fuse two cells to create the first monoclonal
antibody.

   1979: Centocor incorporated to develop diagnostic tests based on monoclonal
antibodies.

   1982: Centocor gains its first U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval -
of a rabies test - and raises $21 million in its initial public offering.

   1984-88: Company posts profits from diagnostic products and then expands into
drug development.

   1992: Its expected flagship drug fails to win FDA approval. Stock tumbles.
Company slashes employment to survive.

   1994: FDA approves ReoPro, a drug to reduce heart attacks in patients who
have had angioplasty.

   1997: Centocor posts its first annual profit from drugs: $11 million on sales
of $196 million.

   1998-99: FDA approves Remicade for Crohn's disease, a gastrointestinal
condition, and rheumatoid arthritis.. Sales reach $317 million, net income is
$192 million.

   1999: Acquired by Johnson & Johnson for $4.9 billion.

   SOURCES: Centocor Inc. and Inquirer news articles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             573 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                  May 6, 2000, Saturday, Orange County Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: NEXELL STOCK RISES 55% ON NEWS OF ROLE IN GENE THERAPY SUCCESS;
 BIOTECH: IRVINE COMPANY'S SPECIAL BAG IN WHICH CELLS ARE TREATED AND CULTURED
PLAYS KEY ROLE IN GROUNDBREAKING TRIAL.

BYLINE: SYLVIA PAGAN WESTPHAL, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Nexell Therapeutics Inc. led the biotech industry's gainers Friday, as its
shares soared 55% upon news that the Irvine company's product was one of the key
components in the groundbreaking gene therapy trial reported by researchers last
week.

   French scientists reported using gene therapy to treat three babies with
"bubble boy disease," a rare inherited disorder that keeps newborns from
developing a complete immune system. Ten months after treatment, the children
exhibited seemingly normal immune systems, a result widely touted as the first
time gene therapy successfully cured a disease.

   Nexell said that cells from the patients, whose DNA was altered in the
experiments, had been housed, cultured and treated in a special type of cell
culture bag that it makes, called Lifecell X-fold bags. The cells were then
injected back into the sick patients.

   Nexell issued a release Thursday afternoon about the Lifecell bag employed in
the French trial. And investors Friday bid Nexell's shares up $ 1.66 to close at
$ 4.69, on volume of 10.7 million shares, more than double its daily average
volume. Nexell was the leading percentage gainer on the Nasdaq Biotech Index of
203 companies.

   The Nexell release quoted a member of the French team as saying that the use
of Nexell's bags, coated with an agent known as RetroNectin that allowed the
missing gene to better enter cells, was important to the experiment's success.

   "We have found that the Nexell cell culture containers, when coated with
RetroNectin , greatly facilitate the insertion of the gene ," said Dr. Alain
Fischer, head of the pediatric immunology and hematology unit at Hospital Necker
in Paris.

   The Lifecell bag has been used successfully at other gene therapy
laboratories.A leading gene-therapy researcher said bags such as Nexell's could
become a standard component in the protocols used by scientists in future gene
therapy trials. Harry L. Malech, of the National Institutes of Health, said in
an interview Friday that he is performing a gene therapy trial for a rare
inherited disorder and using the RetroNectin-coated bags to grow and treat
patients' cells.

   Malech said that there are other alternatives to bags for placing patient's
cells, such as plastic dishes or containers, but that the bags are easier to
handle and present several advantages over other containers.

   The technology to make the bags--which look like flatter, smaller versions of
those used to store plasma and blood for transfusions--is patented, said Tad
Heitman, Nexell's spokesman. They are made of a special plastic that is charged
and have small pores that allow exchange of gasses, an important process when
culturing cells.

   Sales from Lifecell X-fold bags represent a small percentage of the company's
revenue, Heitman said.

   Nexell Therapeutics was created in May 1999. It had been a subsidiary of
Delaware's VIMRx Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Baxter Healthcare Corp.

   Nexell, which develops cell therapies to treat cancer, this week posted a
first-quarter loss of $ 9.3 million, compared with a year-earlier loss of $ 7.2
million. Revenue declined 13% to $ 4.8 million.

   Despite the run-up in its stock Friday, Nexell's shares are still well off
their 52-week high of $ 16.05, reached in the midst of the March biotech frenzy.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2000


                             574 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                      May 6, 2000, Saturday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: MONEY SAVVY;
 STOCKS RALLY DESPITE REPORT ON JOBLESS RATE

BYLINE: From Times Wire Services

BODY:


   Renewed enthusiasm for technology issues propelled the stock market higher
Friday, helping investors overlook the latest evidence that the economy is
growing too fast for the Federal Reserve.

   The Nasdaq composite index gained 96.58 points, or 2.6%, to 3,816.82. The
Standard & Poor's 500 climbed 23.06 points, or 1.6%, to 1,432.63, as 65 of its
88 industry groups gained. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 165.37 points,
or 1.6%, to 10,577.86.

   But Treasuries wobbled to their biggest weekly loss in a year and half,
capped by a report showing the U.S. unemployment rate fell to a 30-year low and
wages rose, fueling expectations for a half-point interest rate rise by the
Federal Reserve.

   "Have we seen the lows in Treasury yields for the year? It's entirely
possible," said Todd Finkelstein of money manager Boston Advisors. "You need
good news on inflation for a bond rally, and we're not seeing it."

   The 10-year yield shot up to 6.50% from 6.42% the day before. For the week,
it climbed 30 basis points. Among other maturities, the 30-year yield rose to
6.19% from 6.16%, and the yield on two-year notes surged to 6.82% from 6.75%.

   Despite Friday's stock rally, the major indexes finished with losses for the
week: 1.1% for Nasdaq, 1.5% for the Dow and 1.4% for the S&P 500.

   The end-of-the-week rally surprised analysts who expected the market to fall
in the wake of the strong employment report.

   Volume, however, was extremely low, leaving some analysts worried that the
investors who bid stocks higher Friday lacked conviction. Nasdaq saw its
thinnest trading of the year.

   Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 4-3 ratio on both the New York
Stock Exchange and on Nasdaq.

   In other markets, the euro rose for the first time in four days on
speculation that the European Central Bank will move to support its slumping
currency.

   Friday's equity highlights:

   * Among major tech names, Applied Materials gained $ 4.13 to $ 101.88, JDS
Uniphase rose $ 2.31 to $ 93.81, and Cisco Systems jumped $ 4.13 to $ 67.75
after it announced an acquisition. Hewlett-Packard helped power the Dow, rising
$ 4.63 to $ 136.75.

   * Cypress Semiconductor surged $ 6.19 to $ 57.75 after the circuit maker was
reiterated "strong buy" by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.

   Also getting Wall Street boosts: Nortel Networks, up $ 7.50 to $ 116.81 after
Morgan Stanley restarted coverage of the telecom equipment maker with an
"outperform" rating; and Visx, up $ 3.75 to $ 20.56 after the developer of
vision-correction technologies was raised to "buy" at Chase H&Q.

   And several Internet retailers rallied after Lehman Bros. spoke up for the
bruised sector. Amazon.com rose $ 3.44 to $ 58.50.

   * On the earnings front, John Hancock Financial Services gained $ 2.19 to $
20 after the insurance giant reported first-quarter operating profit of 65 cents
a share, beating the 53-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First Call.

   But P-Com slid $ 2.44 to $ 9.06 after the maker of equipment that delivers
high-speed wireless Internet connections said it had a loss of 18 cents a share,
versus the consensus estimate of 4 cents.

   * Among Southland companies, Meade Instruments rose $ 3.50 to $ 72.50 after
the Irvine-based telescope and binocular maker said it will split its shares
2-for-1 on June 19 for shareholders of record May 22. The stock has surged
nearly sixfold in the last year.

   Its Irvine neighbor Nexell Therapeutics rallied $ 1.66 to $ 4.69 a day after
the company said French researchers appear to have cured a deadly immune
disorder with gene therapy using Nexell's equipment.

   Market Roundup, C4

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary: Friday, May 5, 2000

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2000


                             575 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times



                      May 6, 2000, Saturday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: NEXELL BUOYED BY LINK TO GENE THERAPY SUCCESS;
 BIOTECH: COMPANY'S SPECIAL CELL CULTURE BAG IS USED IN GROUNDBREAKING TREATMENT
IN FRANCE. NEWS SENDS ITS STOCK UP.

BYLINE: SYLVIA PAGAN WESTPHAL, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Nexell Therapeutics shares soared 55% Friday on news that the Irvine-based
biotech company's product was one of the key components in a groundbreaking gene
therapy trial reported by researchers last week.

   French scientists reported using gene therapy to treat three babies with
"bubble boy disease," a rare inherited disorder that keeps newborns from
developing a complete immune system. Ten months after treatment, the children
exhibited seemingly normal immune systems--a result widely touted as the first
time gene therapy has been used to successfully cure a disease.

   Nexell said that cells from the patients, whose DNA was altered in the
experiments, had been housed, cultured and treated in a special type of cell
culture bag that it makes, called Lifecell X-fold bags. The cells were then
injected back into the sick patients.

   Nexell issued a news release Thursday afternoon discussing the Lifecell bag
employed in the French trial. And investors Friday bid Nexell's shares up $ 1.66
to close at $ 4.69 on volume of 10.7 million shares, more than double its daily
average volume. Nexell was the leading percentage gainer on the Nasdaq biotech
index of 203 issues.

   The Nexell release quoted a member of the French team as saying that the use
of Nexell's bags, coated with an agent known as RetroNectin that allowed the
missing gene to better enter the cells, was important to the experiment's
success.

   "We have found that the Nexell cell culture containers, when coated with
RetroNectin , greatly facilitate the insertion of the gene ," said Dr. Alain
Fischer, head of the pediatric immunology and hematology unit at Hospital Necker
in Paris.

   The Lifecell bag has been used successfully at other gene therapy labs.

   A leading gene therapy researcher said bags such as Nexell's could become a
standard component in the protocols used by scientists in future gene therapy
trials.

   Harry L. Malech of the National Institutes of Health said in an interview
Friday that he is performing a gene therapy trial for a rare inherited disorder
and using the RetroNectin-coated bags to grow and treat patients' cells.

   Malech said that there are other alternatives to bags for holding patient
cells, such as plastic dishes or containers, but that the bags are easier to
handle and have several advantages over other containers.

   The technology to make the bags--which look like flatter, smaller versions of
those used to store plasma and blood for transfusions--is patented, said Tad
Heitman, Nexell's spokesman. They are made of a special plastic that is charged
and have small pores that allow exchange of gases, an important process when
culturing cells.

   Sales of Lifecell X-fold bags represent only a small percentage of the
company's revenue, Heitman said.

   Nexell Therapeutics was created in May 1999. It had been a subsidiary of
Delaware's VIMRx Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Baxter Healthcare Corp.

   Nexell, which develops cell therapies to treat cancer, this week posted a
first-quarter loss of $ 9.3 million, compared with a year-earlier loss of $ 7.2
million. Revenue declined 13% to $ 4.8 million.

   Despite the run-up in its stock Friday, Nexell's shares are still well off
their 52-week high of $ 16.05, reached in the midst of a biotech investor frenzy
in March.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2000


                             576 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 6, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

BODY:

   An article on Thursday about the death of a patient in a gene therapy
experiment at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston misidentified the
authority to which the hospital failed to report the death. It is the
institutional review board of St. Elizabeth's, not the Food and Drug
Administration.



   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2000


                             577 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 6, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 50 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

BODY:

   An article on Thursday about the death of a patient in a gene therapy
experiment at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston misidentified the
authority to which the hospital failed to report the death. It is the
institutional review board of St. Elizabeth's, not the Food and Drug
Administration.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000


                             578 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                       May 5, 2000, Friday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: WHO'S WHAT, WHERE RECENT APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS;
HALE AND DORR NAMES LITIGATION VICE CHAIRWOMAN

BODY:

   Karen F. Green has been named vice chairwoman of the litigation department at
Hale and Dorr, the Boston-based law firm.

   As a member of the firm's government investigations and litigation and
securities litigation practice groups, her practice concentrates on complex
business litigation, including the defense of civil class actions and
white-collar criminal investigations.   Green joined Hale and Dorr in 1982. From
1984 to 1986 she was an assistant US attorney in the Civil Division of the US
attorney's office in Boston. She returned to the firm in 1987.

   In 1993 she was appointed chief of staff to Governor William F. Weld, and
between 1994 and 1996 she was a deputy US attorney for the District of
Massachusetts.

   Transkaryotic elects Nobel laureate to board

   Transkaryotic Therapies has named to its board Walter Gilbert, who in 1980
received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his contributions with two others to
the development of DNA sequencing technology. He has been a member of TKT's
advisory board since 1993.

   Gilbert now holds the Carl M. Loeb University Professorship at Harvard
University. Previous Harvard professorships were held in the departments of
physics, biophysics, biology, biochemistry and molecular biology, and molecular
and cellular biology.

   Cambridge-based TKT is a biopharmaceutical company.

   Organogenesis appoints CFO

   Organogenesis Inc. announced yesterday that John J. Arcari has joined the
company as chief financial officer, as well as vice president, finance and
administration; secretary, and treasurer. He replaces Donna Abelli Lopolito, who
resigned.

   Arcari gained 13 years of experience as chief financial officer at LTX Corp.,
Robotic Vision Systems Inc., and, most recently, INT'L.com Inc.

   Canton-based Organogenesis develops and manufactures medical products
containing living cells and/or natural connective tissue.

   Other appointments

   Exact Laboratories, an applied genomics company based in Maynard, has named
Don M. Hardison as president. Before joining Exact, he was managing partner at
Siebel MultiChannel Services, a subsidiary of Siebel Systems, where he was
responsible for the health care market as well as the Northeast region.

   Chris Ragognetti has been named senior account manager and Amy Perodeau
assistant account manager at Target Marketing & Promotions in Boston, not
Sundance Publishing in Littleton, as was reported in last week's column.

   Finance

   Walter K. Henderson, assistant vice president and Wellesley branch manager,
Sharlene K. Harris, business banking officer, Paul B. Natalizio, senior vice
president; Cambridgeport Bank; Kenneth J. Jaffe, business development officer,
Donna M. Warner, Brookline/Boston branch manager, Bay State Federal Bank,
Brookline; Alison A. Charello, vice president of marketing and public relations,
Lillian Haley, purchasing and facilities manager, Lisa Zenack, vice president of
compliance, Abington Savings Bank; Charles H. Peck, president and director,
Brookline Savings Bank; Duncan B. E. Wilkinson, senior vice president and
controller, Nvest LP, Boston; Salwa B. Kaldas, vice president, controller, and
assistant treasurer, The Savings Bank, Wakefield; Paul A. Sughrue, commercial
lender, Winchester Savings Bank.

   Services

   Heather Fahey, account coordinator, On-Line Resources Inc., Stoneham; Lori
Sobrinho, district manager, Dependable Cleaners, Quincy; Elaine Sandler, manager
of human resources, All Seasons Services Inc., Brockton; Mitchell Rosenberg,
Bruce G. Humphrey, vice presidents, XENERGY Inc., Burlington; Cheryl-anne
Novinsky, director of marketing, Le Meridien, Boston; Robert E. Peirce, Thomas
J. Mueller, Dominic I. Pedulla, associates, Flansburgh Associates Inc., Boston;
Frank D. Nave, corporate director of museums, Sabine Weigand-Nielsen, director
of Folio International, Folio, Worcester; Wendy Tang, Paul Gentili, staff
accountants, Canby, Maloney & Co. Inc., Framingham; Jerry Norman, director of
marketing, Metropolitan Properties of America Inc., Boston.

   Send announcements to Who's What, Where, The Boston Globe, Box 2378, Boston,
MA 02107 (e-mail: who@globe.com; fax: 617-929-3183).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1.  Gilbert 2.  Green 3. Henderson

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000


                             579 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Bioethical brush fires

BODY:

   Truth. You don't need the imagination of Mary Shelley,
author of Frankenstein, to understand the public fear of
biotechnology -- that some great hazard will be unwittingly unleashed.
Those fears are part of the reason millions pay a premium for
food they believe to be all-natural: bottled water and organic
products, for instance.


   Similar fears color the view of genetically altered foods, a fact
that this week prompted the Clinton administration to let companies
label food as free from bioengineering. This would allow marketers
to promote the naturalness of their products. Conversely, they
could use a label advertising the advantages of gene-altered foods.

   This could be a monster itself. Almost every food today is gene-modified
to some degree, so any terminology is apt to be disputed. In 1998,
efforts to define "organic" drew more than 110,000 critical
comments.

   That said, voluntary labels are preferable to mandatory labeling
of gene-altered foods, which would only amplify baseless fears.
Consumers should be able to choose foods based on naturalness.
But those who would damn all gene-altered foods with the stigma
of a label act no less paranoid than Mary Shelley's villagers
who also drove away a scientific miracle.

   Consequences. When it comes to biotechnology, some disclosure
must be rigorous. Example: gene therapy experiments, in which
subjects receive new genes to replace missing or defective ones.
In an example that the tactic works, two French children with
"bubble-boy disease" were recently reported to have been successfully
treated by inserting a gene in their bone marrow.

   The dark side of the science is the way cutting-edge scientists
may shave down the edges of candor. In the past nine months, researchers
conducting two different experiments have been accused
of operating outside strict experimental protocols.

   Most recently, the Food and Drug Administration accused a Boston
doctor of wrongly enrolling a test subject whose lung cancer was
worsened by the experimental therapy, and of failing to report
the death of another subject properly. Last September, researchers
were accused of failing to inform a test subject who later died
of the risks.

   The race for new cures (and associated riches) is part of what
animates modern science. Fair enough. But even desperately sick
patients should be fully informed of risks, and regulators should
be fully informed of failures. Otherwise, the village will stop
trusting the scientists, and torches will be lit.

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2000


                             580 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Medical Research on People

BODY:


   MEDICAL PROGRESS depends to a rarely appreciated degree on clinical trials
done on patients. In recent years, though, as medical research seems to take on
a more frenetic pace, concern has mounted as to whether the safety of patients
in clinical studies is being adequately protected. Two years ago the inspector
general of the Department of Health and Human Services found "disturbing
inadequacies" across the system intended to guard patients' safety. It called
for major improvements in the system's mainstay, the institutional review boards
that oversee clinical trials at individual research institutions.

   Now a sharp follow-up report says that hardly any of the 1998 recommendations
has been carried out. The review boards remain overworked and sometimes
unqualified for the crucial task before them; many, the report says, "don't even
question the safety of an ongoing study unless someone dies." The government has
not pushed the boards to track trials in progress rather than, as now, simply
vetting experiment designs before they begin. It has not required the boards to
oversee the way patients are recruited for clinical trials, though the recipe
for trouble is there when doctors eager to fill out a roster meet patients who
may be desperate for a cure that the study isn't really offering. Nor has the
government come up with promised rules that would set educational requirements
for review board members and curb potential conflicts of interest--for instance,
by barring those with a financial interest in a drug's success from serving on
review boards for trials of that drug.

   These are not abstract issues. Many of them were dramatized last fall in the
tragic death of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger in a gene therapy trial that was
subsequently accused of just such shortcomings, from overzealous recruitment to
inadequate tracking once it began. Most recently, a Food and Drug Administration
warning letter alleged that the death of a volunteer went unreported and others
may have been endangered in a gene therapy trial by a Tufts University
researcher. And gene therapy, though under a stronger spotlight, is only a tiny
corner of the research landscape.

   Left untended, the problem could worsen in the next few years, if only in
sheer scale. More medical research is taking place in the private sector, where
oversight is scarce. Meanwhile, the promise of more biological breakthroughs
around the corner has led to pressure to double or triple the number of patients
enrolled in trials; some research groups are lobbying to have more of the costs
of these trials covered through patients' insurance. More clinical trials may in
fact be called for if, as many believe, we are on the brink of incredible
medical breakthroughs in every direction. But the system ought to be shored up
if it is to be so heavily loaded.



LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2000


                             581 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      May 4, 2000, Thursday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF THE LABORATORY AND INTO THE MARKET

BYLINE: By Liz Kowalczyk, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Donald P. Lombardi is certain that hidden away in one of Children's
Hospital's basement laboratories or far-flung operating rooms is a brainy doctor
working on the next million-dollar life-saving discovery.

   Actually, he's sure there are dozens.   So Lombardi, the director of
technology transfer, will launch a marketing campaign over the next three to
five months to persuade the 2,000 doctors and researchers at the country's top
pediatric hospital to disclose their inventions and possibly license or sell
them to industry.

   Meanwhile, another Boston ideas powerhouse, Harvard University, has just
built a Web site on which companies can plug in a word, Alzheimer's for
instance, and up pops a list of related inventions owned by Harvard and its
affiliated hospitals - and, most importantly, whom to call to make a deal.

   For years, universities and academic medical centers have sought lucrative
partnerships with industry. But with Boston's hospitals struggling to pay their
bills and competition from biotechnology companies increasing, Harvard and some
of its hospitals are trying to crank up their invention machines.

   While research funding to Children's Hospital grew from $81 million last year
to $90 million this year, payments from the federal government and from
foundations have never fully covered the cost of the work. The gap is expected
to grow to $9 million, from $7 million. And with losses of $61 million last
year, the hospital is finding it more difficult to make up the difference.

   "Other hospitals are getting more inventions per dollar," Lombardi said.
"That tells us we probably have an opportunity to grow."

   Children's Hospital has certainly logged its share of commercial successes.
Technology Access Reports ranked the hospital fifth in the country in 1997 in
terms of the number of patents filed and licenses executed from its $76 million
in research support.

   In one deal, Entremed, a Maryland biotechnology company, is paying the
hospital $2 million to fund the research of Dr. Judah Folkman and others who are
developing drugs that could cut off the blood supply to malignant tumors, in
return for first crack at licensing the inventions. A licensing agreement could
yield the hospital millions more.

   But with large drug companies licensing more and more technology from tiny
biotech companies - or buying them up - and shying away from testing high-cost,
high-risk pediatric products, Lombardi expects significant challenges.

   And those biotech companies are not constrained by the same concerns about
image and conflicts of interest.

   Academic researchers tend to publish results at their earliest stage, so
others can build on them. And they often luck upon their discoveries, while
for-profit companies demand secrecy and certainty.

   "Traditionally, the physicians and scientists have wanted to keep their
research very pure and not be motivated by end products, but to look at how to
advance science and how to advance care," said Sandra L. Fenwick, Children's
Hospital's chief operating officer.

   "But there's a growing understanding of difficulties with funding sources and
a willingness to try to find a balance between these motivations."

   She added that, as Children's launches its technology-transfer campaign, "We
absolutely have to remain focused on mission first and foremost and make sure
physicians do not feel a tremendous conflict of interest when there are
opportunities to take something to the market."

   Dr. Isaac Kohane, director of informatics at Children's, said he has felt
that conflict and, as a result, has turned down industry partnerships. In one
case, Kohane received a $1 million grant from the National Library of Medicine
to create a World Wide Web medical records system.

   But he told the hospital's technology-transfer staff that he wanted to
publish immediately for the public good, and now doctors in the Caregroup
Hospital system are using the technology to securely share patients' medical
records.

   "My group had the secret code, and we shared it with them in the spirit of
the Web and of sharing knowledge," he said. "If there were companies worried
about whose technology it was and how to extract their pound of flesh, it would
have taken a year or two longer."

   Kohane is willing to license technology that allows patients and doctors to
communicate electronically, and then stores the exchange in the permanent
medical record. But he said he will not sign an agreement with a company that
uses patient data for marketing research.

   "There's a difference between making a fast buck and making a thoughtful
buck," he said.

   Lombardi will have to negotiate those concerns as he launches his marketing
initiative.

   Having received the go-ahead from the Children's Hospital Board of Trustees a
year ago, Lombardi will establish development programs in angiogenesis
(Folkman's area), gene therapy, bioengineering, informatics, and genomics,
assigning a licensing staff member to each area.

   He will conduct an industry survey of the needs of specific companies and an
inventory of technology in development at the hospital, coordinate Web marketing
campaigns, and organize more start-up companies to develop hospital technology.

   "The idea is to manage the process so it pays its own rent, makes a little
money for the hospital in the short term, and sows the seeds that lead to
significant revenue for the hospital in the long run," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000


                             582 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       May 4, 2000 Thursday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Human gene therapy trials placed under the microscope

BYLINE: By Michael Lasalandra

BODY:

   Gene therapy researchers must be more careful in protecting patients,
ethicists said yesterday in the aftermath of problems found by the Food and Drug
Administration at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Brighton.

   "Gene therapy, because it has been pushing hard to advance fast, has clearly
gotten sloppy in many areas of subject protection," said Arthur Caplan of the
University of Pennsylvania.

   "They've got to get on top of things because, if they don't, the whole field
is going to be set back a decade."

   Such experiments must be subject to stronger oversight and should be limited
to only a few institutions, said George Annas, an ethicist at Boston University.

   "They're not doing what they say they're doing," he said. "You have a
protocol, you follow it."

   The FDA cited St. Elizabeth's researchers, led by Dr. Jeffrey Isner, with
numerous violations of the protocol for their study. The work involves giving
genetically engineered DNA to cardiac patients to grow new blood vessels.

   The trial was halted in March, after the government started taking a closer
look at gene therapy trials following the death of a subject in Pennsylvania.

   A "warning letter" dated April 28 explained why the St. Elizabeth's program
was shut down.

   The violations noted by the FDA included the enrollment of a cancer patient
and the failure to report the death of a patient to the hospital's internal
review board.

   Isner declined to comment yesterday, but is filing an official response to
the FDA letter.

   According to Annas, acceptance of the cancer patient into the study had to be
a mistake.

   "They're either sloppy or fraudulent," he said. "I like to think they're
sloppy."

   The FDA said the gene therapy, which involves injections of VEGF, or vascular
endothelial growth factor, may have caused the cancer patient's tumor size to
double.

   The FDA said inclusions of ineligible subjects not only harm patients, but
also skew study results.

   Concerning the failure to report a patient's death to the hospital's review
board, Annas said he doubts Isner was trying to hide the fact, since he had
reported it elsewhere.

   "But researchers have a hard time taking these IRBs (internal review boards)
seriously," he said. "They've always been treated as a bureaucratic hurdle
rather than an integral part of research."

   Caplan said IRBs are underfunded. "They're all volunteers," he said. "All
they get is their cookies and coffee. IRBs are underfunded, understaffed,
overworked and overwhelmed. They do what they can, but they don't have the
resources. It's a flea trying to steer a dinosaur."

   Caplan said IRBs must be sufficiently funded and said all researchers should
be required to take a course in human-subject experimentation and be certified.

   But Caplan said the problem of protecting human subjects is not limited to
gene therapy trials.

   "These are problems that you find across the board in medical research," he
said.

   Annas decried the secrecy surrounding such experiments, which he said is
fueled by the profit motive.

   The St. Elizabeth's trials are co-sponsored by Vascular Genetics, of Durham,
N.C., a company Isner co-founded.


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 2000


                             583 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 4, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

BODY:


   Raid Is Said to Be Set to Go
Agents were ready to sweep onto the Puerto Rican island of Vieques at dawn today
to remove demonstrators, senior officials said.   PAGE A16

Gene Therapy Death
Researchers at a Boston hospital failed to report the death of a patient in gene
therapy, government investigators said.   PAGE A20


   A Portent of Autism
Scientists have discovered what they believe may be biological markers in
newborns who later develop autism and mental retardation.   PAGE A18

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000


                             584 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 4, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

BODY:


   INTERNATIONAL   A3-14

Seven U.N. Peacekeepers Are Slain in Sierra Leone
Rebels killed 7 United Nations peacekeepers from Kenya and took at least 49
other peacekeepers and civilians hostage. The peacekeepers are part of a United
Nations effort to take charge of security in the West African country, which has
been torn by civil war.   A1

Lockerbie Trial Begins
Two Libyans went on trial in the Netherlands, accused of planting a bomb that
destroyed Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland nearly 12 years ago, killing 270
people.   A1


   Antimissile Laser Is Tested
A laser developed by Israel and the United States to shoot down rockets passed
its first test at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico, hitting a
stationary target, American military officials said.   A11

Conflict in Sri Lanka Worsens
The Sri Lankan cabinet took emergency steps to save money to support the war
effort against Tamil rebels, a war that the rebels are winning. In the latest
phase of a strong rebel offensive, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, a
guerrilla group notorious for its suicide bombers, lobbed mortar fire into a
strategic military base on Sri Lanka's northern peninsula.   A12

Fertility Rate Drops in Europe
The collapse of Communism in 1989 was followed by a sharp drop in the fertility
rate throughout Eastern and Central Europe that could reduce the region's
population by nearly 20 percent by the year 2050, according to a United Nations
report.   A8

4 Hostages Killed in Philippines
Four hostages were found shot to death execution-style after Muslim rebels
holding 27 captives exchanged fire with Philippine troops near a river crossing.
The four dead were a priest and three teachers. Many of the surviving hostages
are children who were seized from a school.   A7

New Tactic on China Trade Bill
Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, plans to introduce
legislation in the House this week that he says will secure much-needed votes
for making China's trade privileges permanent and thereby rescue the Clinton
administration's top remaining foreign policy goal from a potentially
embarrassing defeat.   A8

World Briefing   A14

NATIONAL   A16-25

Gore and Bush Trade Barbs Over Policy and Style
Vice President Al Gore accused Gov. George W. Bush of devising a "secret plan"
that could bankrupt the Social Security system. Hours later, Mr. Bush questioned
the vice president's honesty and predicted that Mr. Gore's attacks would
backfire.   A1

Democrats Sue a G.O.P. Leader
Congressional Democrats filed a federal lawsuit accusing Representative Tom
DeLay, the House majority whip, of extortion, racketeering and money laundering
in fund-raising. He rejected the accusations.   A24

Census Return Rates Improve
The Census Bureau has received answers from 65.9 percent of the households that
got a census form in the mail, a response rate helped along by a strong response
from Hispanics and other minorities.   A1

Albright Admonishes Diplomats
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, angered by recent security lapses that
included a lost computer containing secret files on weapons proliferation, told
American diplomats that protecting national secrets was at the core of their
mission.   A18

U.S. to Move on Protesters
A senior administration official said the government was ready to begin removing
demonstrators blocking military training on a Puerto Rican island, Vieques.
A16

Gun Companies Change Tack
Gun companies have broken off settlement talks in suits by 31 cities and
counties in hope that judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in November
will go to the apparent Republican presidential nominee, George W. Bush, who as
governor of Texas has been a staunch defender of the industry and gun owners.
A16

A New Pacific Preserve
The Nature Conservancy has agreed to buy Palmyra atoll, a spectacular cluster of
uninhabited coral islets 1,052 miles south of Hawaii, from a Honolulu family.
A16

EDUCATION

Putting a Premium on College
A study found that higher education is increasingly seen as the ticket to the
middle class, with 87 percent of Americans saying "a college education has
become as important as a high school diploma used to be."   A23

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-12

Officials Blame Hospital For Rape Case's Unraveling
A rape suspect, Anthony Jones, 42, was sentenced to two to four years in prison
on a single count of second-degree assault in a plea agreement that arose from
Coney Island Hospital's not providing DNA evidence that prosecutors believed
would have brought a conviction of rape.   B1

Arrest in Witness Threat
Edgar Garcia, 21, a convicted drug dealer, was arrested and charged with making
threats against a livery driver to stop him from testifying in the shooting of
another driver.   B3

OBITUARIES   C20-23

Cardinal John O'Connor
The archbishop of New York, the Roman Catholic Church's most prominent spokesman
in the United States, was 80.   A1

CIRCUITS   G1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Markers for Autism
Scientists have discovered what may be biological markers in the blood of
newborn infants who later develop autism and mental retardation.   A18

Gene Therapy Program Faulted
F.D.A. investigators say researchers at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston
failed to report a death in gene therapy experiments and may have contributed to
the growth of cancer in another patient, whose condition was improperly
reported.   A20

ARTS   E1-14

SPORTS   D1-8

Toronto Evens Series, 2-2
The Maple Leafs beat the Devils, 3-2, in Game 4 of their four-of-seven-game
playoff series.   D1

U.S. Marathon Hopes Dim
Khalid Khannouchi, the Moroccan-born marathon-record holder who became a United
States citizen on Tuesday, said injuries would keep him out of the Olympic
trials on Sunday in Pittsburgh.   D5

BUSINESS DAY   C1-20

European Exchanges Merge
The London and Frankfurt stock exchanges announced plans for a full merger, as
well as an alliance with New York's technology-heavy Nasdaq market. The hope is
to build a pan-European trading heavyweight and a 24-hour global market in new
economy stocks.   A1

Werner G. Seifert, chief executive of the German exchange, will be chief
executive of the new company, with headquarters in London.   C1

The Euro's Slide Continues
The euro settled below 90 cents to the dollar for the first time.   C1

CBS-Viacom Deal Approved
The F.C.C. approved Viacom's $30 billion acquisition of CBS, the biggest
broadcast merger in history.   C1

The F.C.C.'s Cable Bureau said Time Warner had violated a federal regulation
when it pulled ABC programming off its cable systems.   C6

Still in Pursuit of Bestfoods
Unilever seemed poised to sweeten its spurned $18.4 billion takeover offer for
Bestfoods.   C1

Stocks in Broad Retreat
The Dow fell 2.34 percent, the Nasdaq dropped 2.06 percent and the S.& P. 500
lost 2.16 percent.   C8

Business Digest   C1

HOUSE & HOME   F1-18

EDITORIAL   A26-27

Editorials: Ambitious plans for transit; a chance for better primaries; John
Cardinal O'Connor.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge   E12
TV Listings   E13
Crossword   E12
Weather   A20
Public Lives   B2

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000


                             585 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                  May 4, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Says Researchers Failed to Report a Second Death Linked to Gene
Therapy

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS

DATELINE: BOSTON, May 3

BODY:

   Researchers at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center here failed to report the death
of a patient in gene therapy experiments and might have contributed to the
growth of cancer in another patient, whose condition was also reported
improperly, investigators for the Food and Drug Administration have said.

   Their accusations were made in April in a letter to the hospital and the
chief researcher in the experiment, Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, and were recently
posted on the agency's Web site. The experiment has been stopped.

    The news comes as scientists, hospitals and companies sponsoring gene
therapy experiments have been working to assure the public of the safety of the
experiments after the death of a patient in a gene experiment at the University
of Pennsylvania last year.

   Jack Cumming, president of the Vascular Genetics Inc. of Durham, N.C., the
company sponsoring the experiment at St. Elizabeth's, acknowledged today that
there had been some "problems" in the gene therapy experiment. Mr. Cumming said
the company would do everything it could to satisfy the F.D.A. in correcting the
problems. He said he was "very optimistic" that positive results would be
presented to the agency this summer.

   Mr. Cumming said he would not dispute the agency's findings and said that his
company had hired two outside groups to audit and monitor all the experiments it
had begun around the country, including the one at St. Elizabeth's. The groups
were hired after the company learned that the federal agency was writing a
warning letter, he said.

   Sonia Hagopian, a spokeswoman for the St. Elizabeth's, said the hospital took
the warning letter very seriously, and added: "We are focusing all our resources
on producing a thorough and thoughtful response to the F.D.A."

   The hospital's public relations office said Dr. Isner would not be available
for comment at this time.

   The problems in the experiment were reported on Tuesday in The Washington
Post and The Boston Herald.

   About 300 gene therapy experiments are under way around the country. Troubles
with some of the experiments have become public, especially since the death of a
patient, Jesse Gelsinger, 18, in the University of Pennsylvania experiment.

   In the experiment at St. Elizabeth's, which was jointly sponsored by Tufts
University, a gene that makes a substance called V.E.G.F. (for vascular
endothelial growth factor) was injected directly into the hearts of patients
with blocked heart vessels. Researchers hoped the gene would start making the
growth factor, which is the body's natural substance to make blood vessels grow.

   Inspectors for the federal agency said they found several violations of the
rules of the experiment in a routine check in March. One patient in the
experiment died two months after receiving the experimental therapy, but the
researchers did not report the death to the agency. The agency is investigating
to determine if the treatment was the cause of the death.

   In another case, a patient was included in the study although he should have
been kept out under the rules of the experiment. The patient was a heavy smoker
and a small mass had appeared in one lung, the agency said. Because the
experimental therapy used a chemical designed to increase the growth of blood
vessels, the agency said, it was possible that it increased the supply of blood
to the growing tumor.

   The agency's warning letter noted that the St. Elizabeth's researchers saw
the mass when it was less than a centimeter in July 1999, then again in August
when it was two centimeters in diameter, but went ahead with the treatment on
Sept. 21, 1999. Two months later, the agency said, the patient was hospitalized
with chest pain, and the mass was found to have grown to five centimeters.

   There was no evidence in the patient's records or the experiment records that
either the patient or his doctor was notified of the growth of the mass,
investigators said.

   Instead, one of the researchers sent a letter to the patient's doctor saying
that the patient was doing better with his heart problem since receiving the
therapy. The letter did not mention the lung mass.

   In addition, the agency noted that in the experiment records the growth in
the mass was noted and marked as a "severe" change for the patient. This word
should have set off an immediate call to the F.D.A. Instead, the agency said,
the word "severe" was struck out and the word "mild" substituted.

   The agency's letter also noted that because the researchers apparently did
nothing to notify the patient or his doctor, "your site appears to have failed
to provide adequate medical care for this subject."

   In another case, a patient in the study had a heart attack just after getting
the experimental injection. The attack led to multiple organ failure, a long
hospitalization, and death a few months later.

   But the researchers reported to authorities only that the patient was
hospitalized, not that she had died.

   Such events are required to be reported because it is possible the therapy
itself was the cause of death, and it would be urgent to consider whether to
take precautions with other experimental subjects.

   In addition, the agency reported that Dr. Isner himself carried out an
autopsy on the woman's heart, although he is not a certified pathologist and has
no hospital privileges to carry out autopsies.

   The inspectors also cited several other problems with the methods of
enrolling patients in the experiment: needed tests were not done in some cases,
and other patients enrolled might not have been eligible for the study.

   The hospital and the researchers have 15 days to tell the agency how they
will correct the problems in the experiment. There is no set punishment for the
violations, but the F.D.A. has the authority to ban the researchers from future
work using federal money.

   This and three other experiments carried on by Dr. Isner were stopped when
the agency first began its inspection in February and have not resumed.

   Dr. Isner is a founder of the company leading the trials and is a major
stockholder in it.

   http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2000, Saturday

CORRECTION:

   An article on Thursday about the death of a patient in a gene therapy
experiment at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston misidentified the
authority to which the hospital failed to report the death. It is the
institutional review board of St. Elizabeth's, not the Food and Drug
Administration.



   An article on Thursday about the death of a patient in a gene therapy
experiment at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston misidentified the
authority to which the hospital failed to report the death. It is the
institutional review board of St. Elizabeth's, not the Food and Drug
Administration.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000


                             586 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MAY 4, 2000 Thursday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL OFFICIALS ACCUSE MASS. GENE-THERAPY RESEARCHER OF VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   In a sharply worded warning letter, federal officials accused a leading
gene-therapy researcher of failing to follow key patient safeguards or properly
report the death of a volunteer patient.

   The alleged violations were outlined in the nine-page letter dated April 28
and sent by the Food and Drug Administration to Dr. Jeffrey Isner, a Tufts
University scientist who headed the trials at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in
Boston.

   One patient was included in a trial even though he had cancer, an illness the
FDA said could have been exacerbated by the treatment, which encourages
blood-vessel growth that in turn can feed tumors.

   The FDA said the patient's lung tumor doubled in size within three months of
being treated.

   The research team, whose trials were halted by the FDA in March, also
allegedly failed to investigate and properly report the death of another
patient.

   It was unclear whether the therapy caused her death 4 1/2 months after she
received an injection of genetic material directly in her heart. The FDA said
Isner only told hospital overseers of complications despite being "well aware"
of the death.

   "Deviations in these studies appear to be the result of a serious lack of
knowledge of your responsibilities as principal investigator including
supervision of personnel," the FDA letter said.

   The letter said the enrollment of ineligible subjects, such as the cancer
patient, "can be a serious protocol deviation." It said that such patients may
have faced "an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury" and that
their inclusion may have tainted the results of the study.

   Isner has 15 days to respond with a plan to correct the deficiencies.

   Gene therapy is a 10-year-old field of experimental medicine that attempts to
repair or replace abnormal genes in seriously ill patients by transferring
synthetically manufactured genes into the body.

   The therapy has been under close scrutiny since the death of an 18-year-old
volunteer in a trial at the University of Pennsylvania in September. The patient
died of liver failure after he received an injection of genes designed to
correct a genetic liver disease.

   Some of the first preliminary successes in gene therapy have been reported
over the last few months. Just last week, researchers in France said that three
infants with severe combined immunodeficiency disease were living normal lives
months after being treated with corrective genes.

   The Boston trials sponsored by Vascular Genetics of Durham, N.C., were aimed
at growing new blood vessels around blocked heart and leg arteries in patients
who could not undergo traditional procedures.

   Isner could not be located for comment by the Associated Press. St.
Elizabeth's spokeswoman Sonia Hagopian said the hospital was taking the letter
seriously.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             587 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 2000 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     May 3, 2000, Wednesday ,THIRD EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D9

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: REGION BRIEFS;
GENZYME SAYS FABRY'S DRUG TRIAL SUCCESSFUL

BYLINE: BY RONALD ROSENBERG, GLOBE STAFF

BODY:

   Genzyme Corp. said its phase 3 clinical trial for Fabrazyme was successful.
The proposed drug replaces the enzyme known as alpha-galactosidase to treat a
rare male genetic disorder called Fabry's disease. The company declined to
elaborate on the results of the trial, in part because it is competing with
Transkaryotic Therapies Inc., which has a similar drug.  Both Cambridge-based
companies are planning to ask the Food and Drug Administration this year for
approvals and to be designated as the sole provider of the medication to the
estimated 2,000 patients with Fabry's disease in the United States under the
Orphan Drug Act. The law enables one company to have seven years of market
exclusivity and tax incentives in exchange for developing a drug to treat a rare
disease.  Genzyme said it plans to present the full details about its Fabrazyme
clinical trial at a medical conference this fall.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000


                             588 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       May 3, 2000 Wednesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Ailing dad rips FDA for halting gene therapy

BYLINE: By Michael Lasalandra

BODY:

   Phil Pilla says his last hope for beating heart disease has been taken away
from him by the FDA's decision to halt a gene-therapy program at St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center.

   "I'm nervous and scared," he said. "I don't know where I'm going to go from
here. I've got a 13-year-old daughter and a 5-year-old son. The FDA is taking
something positive away from us. It was working. Now, they're taking it away."

   Pilla, 56, a father of four from Watertown, had undergone bypass surgery in
1991,but his arteries closed again, causing him to suffer two heart attacks in
August.

   Doctors deemed his blockages too severe for angioplasty treatments or another
bypass operation but said there was one last hope. Pilla was accepted into an
experimental gene-therapy program at St. Elizabeth's and in December began
receiving genetically engineered DNA via a catheter into his heart muscle in a
bid to grow new blood vessels.

   "I was feeling good for a while," said Pilla, a parking-lot attendant.

   After six treatments, he was able to do 15 minutes on a treadmill - twice as
long as before - and blood flow and heart muscle tests showed positive changes,
according to his wife, Rhonda.

   His doctors declined comment.

   Then, last month, the FDA abruptly halted the trial, putting Pilla and about
a dozen other local patients into limbo.

   Since the treatments were stopped, "his energy level is decreasing," said
Pilla's wife. "We've seen a decline."

   The study's shutdown came a month after President Clinton ordered a review of
gene-therapy guidelines, following reports some researchers had failed to
explain risks carefully to patients.

   Gene therapy has been under close scrutiny since the death of an 18-year-old
patient in an experiment at the University of Pennsylvania in September. The
patient died of liver failure after he received an injection of genes designed
to correct a genetic liver disease.

   Pilla, however, notes that the Pennsylvania case has nothing to do with the
experiments at St. Elizabeth's, which involve attempts to grow new blood vessels
around blocked heart arteries in patients unable to undergo traditional heart
procedures.

   Besides, he said, he was informed of the risks, but decided to go ahead
anyway.

   "It was a last resort," he said.

   Pilla's wife, Rhonda, is afraid the FDA will let him die.

   "The FDA could drag its feet for a long time," she said.

   FDA spokesman Lenore Gelb said the agency would not discuss the matter, other
than to confirm that the trial had been shut down.

   However, a "warning letter" dated April 28 lists a number of violations found
by the FDA (see related story).

   Those violations included allowing a cancer patient to join the study and
failing to notify a hospital review board of a patient death in a timely manner.

   The warning letter describes several of the violations as "major,"
particularly those involving the admission of ineligible subjects into the
study.

   "The enrollment of ineligible subjects can be a serious protocol deviation,"
it said.

   "Treatment of subjects outside the approved protocol may have exposed them to
an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury, as well as affecting
the final results of the study."

   The trial by Vascular Genetics of Durham, N.C., has been overseen by Dr.
Jeffrey Isner, chief of cardiovascular research and a professor at Tufts
University School of Medicine.

   Studies have shown the technique has been successful in growing new blood
vessels to the heart. Sixty patients originally got the treatment via injections
of the DNA directly into heart muscle.

   Another group of 22 patients got the DNA via catheter, although half of them
received a placebo as part of a randomized trial. Pilla was in that group, but
apparently got DNA, not the placebo.

   Following the shutdown of the trial, Vascular Genetics issued a news release
saying that while the trial was on hold it would provide the government with the
results of clinical trials and measurements of the amount of the gene protein in
patient blood samples.

   In November, the National Institutes of Health also charged that Isner had
failed to immediately report two deaths of patients involved in his experiments.

   Isner denied the accusation and said the deaths were reported properly. He
also said the two patients died of problems unrelated to the gene therapy.

   Photo Caption: ONLY HOPE: Phil Pilla sits with his wife, Rhonda, and his son
and daughter, Zach and Bonnie, in their Watertown home. Phil's experimental
treatment for heart disease has been halted by the federal government. Staff
photo by Nancy Lane


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2000


                             589 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                       May 3, 2000 Wednesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 005

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: FDA: Docs violated protocol

BYLINE: By Michael Lasalandra

BODY:

   Researchers at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center violated FDA rules for the
conduct of gene-therapy experiments, according to a "warning letter" dated April
28 that explains for the first time why the program was put on hold in March.

   One of the violations involves the acceptance of a cancer patient into the
study that involves an attempt to grow new arteries to carry blood to the hearts
of cardiac patients.

   The FDA is concerned the gene-therapy treatment may have caused the patient's
lung tumor to grow. "The outcome of the FDA inspection raised concerns about the
quality of your clinical research," says the letter to Dr. Jeffrey Isner, the
program's chief investigator, obtained by the Herald yesterday.

   The harshly worded FDA letter says corrective action must be taken or Isner
could be disqualified as a clinical investigator.

   According to the FDA, Isner's study violated regulations designed to protect
human subjects.

   "Deviations in these studies appear to be the result of a serious lack of
knowledge of your responsibilities as principal investigator . . ." says the
letter, signed by Steven A. Masiello, director of the Office of Compliance and
Biologic Quality.

   The study involves giving genetically engineered DNA - known as VEGF or
vascular endothelial growth factor - to cardiac patients to help them grow new
blood vessels to the heart. About 82 patients have been enrolled in the studies
dating back to 1998. Two of the patients have died.

   Among violations cited:

   The study accepted a patient who had cancer, even though the protocol bars
subjects with any evidence of the disease.

   Failure to notify the hospital's internal review board in a timely manner of
the increase in the size of the patient's lung mass.

   Failure to notify the review board of the death of a patient.

   Isner performed the autopsy on one of the patients who died, although he is
not board certified in pathology and has no hospital privileges for doing
autopsies.

   Some patients did not get proper physical exams or have blood samples taken
as required.

   Two subjects signed consent forms without a witness.

   The warning letter describes several violations as "major," particularly
those involving the admission of ineligible subjects into the study.

   Isner could not be reached for comment. St. Elizabeth spokeswoman Sonia
Hagopian said the hospital is taking the letter seriously.

   "It raises some questions about some aspects of care and record-keeping and
the medical center is in the process of putting together a thoughtful and
thorough response."


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2000


                             590 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                      May 3, 2000 Wednesday THIRD EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 005

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: FDA: Docs violated protocol

BYLINE: By Michael Lasalandra

BODY:

   Researchers at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center violated FDA rules for the
conduct of gene-therapy experiments, according to a "warning letter" dated April
28 that explains for the first time why the program was put on hold in March.

   One of the violations involves the acceptance of a cancer patient into the
study that involves an attempt to grow new arteries to carry blood to the hearts
of cardiac patients.

   The FDA is concerned the gene-therapy treatment may have caused the patient's
lung tumor to grow.

   "The outcome of the FDA inspection raised concerns about the quality of your
clinical research," says the letter to Dr. Jeffrey Isner, the program's chief
investigator, obtained by the Herald yesterday.

   The harshly worded FDA letter says corrective action must be taken or Isner
could be disqualified as a clinical investigator. According to the FDA, Isner's
study deviated from an authorized study plan and violated regulations designed
to protect human subjects.

   "Deviations in these studies appear to be the result of a serious lack of
knowledge of your responsibilities as principal investigator . . ., including
supervision of personnel," says the letter, signed by Steven A. Masiello,
director of the Office of Compliance and Biologic Quality.

   The study involves giving genetically engineered DNA - known as VEGF or
vascular endothelial growth factor - to cardiac patients to help them grow new
blood vessels to the heart.

   About 82 patients have been enrolled in the studies dating back to 1998. Two
of the patients have died.

   Among violations cited:

   The study accepted a patient who had cancer, even though the protocol bars
subjects with any evidence of the disease.

   Failure to notify the hospital's internal review board in a timely manner of
the increase in the size of the patient's lung mass.

   Failure to notify the review board of the death of a patient.

   Isner performed the autopsy on one of the patients who died, although he is
not board certified in pathology and has no hospital privileges for doing
autopsies.

   Some patients did not get proper physical exams or have blood samples taken
as required.

   Two subjects signed consent forms without a witness.

   Isner could not be reached for comment. St. Elizabeth spokeswoman Sonia
Hagopian said the hospital is taking the letter seriously.


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2000


                             591 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MAY 3, 2000 Wednesday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: WHEN LIFE OFFERS FRACTURES, BUT NO BREAKS A RARE BONE DISORDER CUTS A
BOY OFF FROM THE REGULAR ACTIVITIES OF OTHER 10-YEAR-OLDS.

BYLINE: Christopher Merrill, INQUIRER SUBURBAN STAFF

BODY:

   From his wheelchair in the living room, Joe Ross tried to ignore the other
neighborhood children playing on his swingset in the backyard.

   It wasn't just the fractured leg that kept him inside. Even when it's mended,
he won't be able to play with the others. Joe is the little boy who breaks.

   The 10-year-old from East Bradford, Chester County, has a medical chart
resembling that of a veteran stuntman, with more than two dozen broken arms,
wrists, ribs, legs and ankles. Joe suffers from osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), a
rare bone disorder that has left his skeleton as fragile as glass scaffolding.

   Unlike most boys his age, Joe can't wrestle with friends, climb trees, ride a
bike, pillow-fight, or even sit in the front seat of a car with airbags.

   Even worse, he can't play sports. In fact, he can't even watch from seats
where foul balls are likely to go, and at recess, he is sequestered.

   Worse than the pain of all the broken bones, however, is the psychological
impact of being perceived as different. "Because I have a physical thing," Joe
said recently, "they think I have a mental thing, too."

   Although he understands that he cannot play outside with the other children,
Joe wishes they would not play where he can see them from his bed.

   "Especially in the winter," he said. "That makes me mad, sad."

   The concern over his fragility leaves Joe alone a lot, spending his days
playing video games, watching television or reading by himself. His 13-year-old
sister, Sara, has OI as well, but her fractures ended in kindergarten.

   "His sense of isolation has been incredibly more difficult than hers," his
mother, Diane Ross, said. "It's tough to find someone to do passive activities.
. . . And when they do, they don't stay long."

   While the average healing time for most broken bones is about six weeks, the
femur that Joe keeps breaking takes about 11 months to fix: surgery, body cast,
toe-to-hip brace, wheelchair, walker and rehabilitation. He has missed too many
school days to count, Diane Ross said.

   Joe's condition was diagnosed in the womb, and multiple breaks were expected,
Ross said, knowing that luck often plays a part. Someone with OI can suffer from
10 to 100 broken bones in a lifetime, according to statistics from the OI
Foundation in Gaithersburg, Md.

   "[Joe] broke three collarbones as a toddler," Diane Ross said, "which, all
things considered, I thought we were doing very well."

   But four years ago, at age 6, Joe stepped out of that backyard swingset into
a cycle of broken legs that has held him and the family captive ever since.

   * Diane Ross has seen just about every broken bone a person can have, but
when she saw Joe's left leg after that fateful step out of the swingset, she
called 911 because it was so deformed.

   "It looked like he had two knees in one leg," she said.

   In seven months, he underwent four surgeries, but every time he was nearly
healed, it snapped again.

   And it doesn't take much. Joe has broken it by stepping into the pantry;
bumping into a doorjamb; tripping, but not falling, on a duffel bag; slipping on
a wet floor; and trying to sit down.

   "The thing that is so heartbreaking about all these fractures, he's in so
much pain. It's an incredible amount of suffering," she said.

   When Joe comes home from the hospital, he must wear a body cast that prevents
him from sitting down. Once he graduates to the wheelchair, he can return to his
fourth-grade class, but Sonia Shuler, his instructional aide, is with him at all
times.

   He leaves class last or first, to avoid the bustle in the halls. At lunch, he
sits where he will not be bumped.

   "He goes out and sits under the tree and draws pictures at recess," Shuler
said. "Joe takes it all exceptionally well. I've only seen him blow up once,
because he couldn't ride the bus for a field trip."

   His wheelchair requires a bus with a lift, and he does not hide that the
added attention is humiliating. "I don't like it when they stare at me," he
said.

   Joe and Sara are often left out of birthday parties and other activities
because parents are fearful of what could happen. "Parents have outwardly told
me they would be uncomfortable if Joe came over," she said, but added that she
understands on a basic level.

   "There are a lot of things that people wouldn't think of as being dangerous,"
she said, "but for these kids . . . everywhere you go, everything you do, you
have to ask yourself, is there a danger here?"

   * In the world of OI victims, according to Heller An Shapiro, executive
director of the OI Foundation, danger is everywhere.

   "You can break something laughing, coughing, sneezing. . .," Shapiro said.

   The disorder, caused by a genetic mutation, is in many cases inherited, as it
was with the Ross children. It strikes 1 in 50,000 people, and there are varying
degrees of severity. Joe's case falls roughly in the middle, as does his
sister's.

   By the time Sara was 5 months old, Diane Ross suspected something was wrong.
The breaks had unlikely causes: a blanket snagged her foot; her foot swung back
into the stroller's wheel; she reached for a toy.

   Had the on-call physician not been familiar with the disorder, he might have
diagnosed child abuse, a common occurrence, Shapiro said.

   The diagnosis explained Ross' own childhood fractures. It turned out she,
too, had inherited the disorder.

   Fracturing often decreases after puberty, Shapiro said. "We're not sure why.
Chemical changes, [the children are] not growing as fast, or they've learned to
be more careful."

   Unfortunately, in cases like Joe's, once the breaking begins, it is difficult
to stop, because the child cannot get the exercise needed to strengthen muscles
and bones.

   "It's a catch-22, because he can't break the cycle," Michael Ward, the boy's
orthopedic surgeon, said. "He's restricted because he breaks bones; he breaks
bones because he has been restricted."

   * From giving sponge baths, chauferring, preparing meals and cleaning wounds
to managing the bills and insurance claims, caring for the children has become a
full-time job.

   "I've become a self-trained orthopedic nurse and physical therapist," Ross
said, adding that the benefits her husband, Stephen, receives as township
manager of West Whiteland have been a godsend.

   They have no extended family in the area and rely on a small circle of
friends and their church.

   "It's a fast-paced world, and most families don't make time for people who
don't fit into the mainstream," she said. "Our lifestyle is curtailed
drastically."

   When they are able to venture out as a family, there are the logistical and
safety issues.

   "It's incredibly difficult to plan summer vacations," she said. "You never
know what modality you'll be in . . . walker, wheelchair, and most typical
activities are dangerous for these kids."

   Even the beach poses problems. The soft sand is a danger to feet and ankles,
and waves can knock over the children. The centrifugal force of an amusement
ride once snapped Joe's arm.

   * On a recent afternoon, Joe reeled off a portion of his sports memorabilia
collection, including four Sergei Federov autographs, and get-well cards and
programs from a half-dozen teams.

   "He'd trade it all in a heartbeat for the opportunity to play," Diane Ross
said. But Joe begrudgingly acknowledged that it was unlikely. He used to say
that he wanted to be an National Hockey League goalie, but now says he would
settle for being a football coach.

   In spite of the recurring breaks and extended disappointment over the last
four years, Joe maintains a positive outlook, even when friends make excuses not
to come over.

   "They'll say, 'My grandma is in town,' or their family is having dinner," he
said, "or they say they're going to come over and then they don't."

   But through the cycle of breaks and the lonely afternoons, he knows he can
count on Sara, and she on him.

   "These two are there for each other," their mother said. "With every break,
nobody cries more, or is more brokenhearted, than Sara is for Joe."

   And when Sara got the news last year that she would have to undergo a
seven-hour surgery to fuse her bowed spine, little brother was there for her.

   "He put his arms around her neck, and his head on her shoulder," Ross said,
"and told her it was going to be OK."

   Christopher Merrill's e-mail address is cmerrill@phillynews.com

   BRITTLE BONE DISORDER Disease: Osteogenesis Imperfecta

   Alternative name: Brittle bone disease

   Definition: A condition of abnormal fragility of the bones

   Causes: Inherited defects of collagen (the protein responsible for the
strength of the bone)

   Symptoms:

   Multiple fractures that result in shortened arms and legs

   Short stature

   Tooth abnormalities

   Hearing loss

   Spine curvature

   Mild cases may not be detected until later in life

   Prevalence: The best estimate suggests a minimum of 20,000 cases and possibly
as many as 50,000 cases in the United States. A disorder with less than 200,000
cases is considered rare.

   Treatment: There is no treatment for the underlying disorder, However,
several procedures are being studied.

   Gene therapy: Researchers have suppressed the gene in test tubes and are
testing the method on mice.

   Drug therapy: Bisphosphonates, a class of drugs that may increase bone
density, have been approved for osteoporosis.

   Bone marrow transplants: Being studied.

   For more information: Call the Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation in
Gaithersburg, Md., at 301-947-0083 or 1-800-981-2663.

   E-mail: bonelink@oif.orgWeb site: http://www.oif.org

   Source: Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND CHART

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002


                             592 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 3, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: DEATH IN GENE THERAPY NOT REPORTED, FDA SAYS

BYLINE: DEBORAH NELSON AND RICK WEISS, THE WASHINGTON POST

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --

BODY:


   A Tufts University scientist failed to report the death of a volunteer in his
gene therapy experiments and put other participants' lives at risk, including a
patient with early signs of cancer that may have spread as a result of the
treatment, federal officials charged yesterday.

   Patients suspected of having cancer were supposed to be excluded from the
study because it involves a treatment that fosters the growth of new blood
vessels, which are known to feed tumors. Yet a volunteer diagnosed with a lung
mass was enrolled anyway, and his tumor doubled in size within three months of
treatment.

   In another case, a volunteer had a heart attack after getting a gene infusion
in her heart, and died from complications a few months later. But the scientist
and his team waited months before revealing the problems to hospital officials
overseeing the experiment's safety. And even then, only the complications and
not the death were reported.

   These and other alleged violations of federal research rules are detailed in
a nine-page warning letter from the Food and Drug Administration to Jeffrey
Isner, who led the research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston.

   The letter raises serious questions about the quality and safety of Isner's
high-profile efforts to grow new blood vessels in patients with heart disease
and other circulatory problems.

   Those efforts, which for a time seemed to offer a miraculous way to grow
crucial blood vessels around blocked ones, have been stalled since late
February, when the FDA ordered a halt to four human gene therapy experiments
that Isner oversaw pending the completion of its inspection.

   More generally, the new revelations come at a time when the field of gene
therapy is trying to recover from a spate of bad publicity. The experimental
approach, which tries to cure diseases by giving people new genes, has been
under intense public and regulatory scrutiny since the death in September of a
teen-age volunteer in a University of Pennsylvania experiment. Federal
regulators ultimately concluded that the Penn experiment and many others around
the country were not in compliance with federal rules.

   The Boston experiments were sponsored by St. Elizabeth's and by Vascular
Genetics Inc. of Durham, N.C., a company that Isner cofounded to commercialize
gene therapy discoveries.

   According to the FDA letter, Isner's research team neither properly
investigated the death of the volunteer late last year nor reported it to St.
Elizabeth's institutional review board.

   The volunteer's heart stopped after receiving a direct injection of genetic
material in June 1998, leading to multiple organ failure and, four months later,
death, the letter states. The chief pathologist told FDA officials that he
removed the heart and turned it over to Isner, who performed the autopsy even
though he apparently didn't have hospital authorization or board certification
to conduct autopsies.

   In addition, Isner didn't inform the institutional review board that the
volunteer had suffered any complications until 1999, the letter states.

   In the other case, Isner's research team injected genetic material into a
volunteer's heart in September even though X-rays taken at St. Elizabeth's just
before the treatment showed evidence of a growth in his lung.

   Although at least two follow-up X-rays soon after the treatment again
revealed the lung mass, there is no written indication that he or his private
doctor was told about the problem, the letter states.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000


                             593 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                       May 3, 2000 Wednesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: FDA SAYS SCIENTIST HID GENE THERAPY MISDEEDS;

BYLINE: By DEBORAH NELSON; and RICK WEISS; WASHINGTON POST

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A Tufts University scientist failed to report the death of a volunteer in his
gene therapy experiments and put other participants' lives at risk, including a
patient with early signs of cancer that may have spread as a result of the
treatment, federal officials charged yesterday.

   Patients suspected of having cancer were supposed to be excluded from the
study because it involves a treatment that fosters the growth of new blood
vessels, which are known to feed tumors. Yet a volunteer diagnosed with a lung
mass was enrolled anyway, and his tumor doubled in size within three months of
treatment.

   In another case, a volunteer had a heart attack after getting a gene infusion
in her heart, and died from complications a few months later. But the scientist
and his team waited months before revealing the problems to hospital officials
overseeing the experiment's safety. And even then, only the complications and
not the death were reported.

   These and other alleged violations of federal research rules are detailed in
a nine-page warning letter from the Food and Drug Administration to Jeffrey
Isner, who led the research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston.

   The letter raises serious questions about the quality and safety of Isner's
high-profile efforts to grow new blood vessels in patients with heart disease
and other circulatory problems. Those efforts, which for a time seemed to offer
a miraculous way to grow crucial blood vessels around blocked ones, have been
stalled since late February, when the FDA ordered a halt to four human gene
therapy experiments that Isner oversaw pending the completion of its inspection.

   The new revelations come at a time when the field of gene therapy is trying
to recover from a spate of bad publicity. The experimental approach, which tries
to cure diseases by giving people new genes, has been under intense public and
regulatory scrutiny since the death in September of a teenage volunteer in a
University of Pennsylvania experiment.

   The Boston experiments were sponsored by St. Elizabeth's and by Vascular
Genetics Inc. of Durham, N.C., a company that Isner cofounded to commercialize
gene therapy discoveries.

   According to the FDA letter, Isner's research team neither properly
investigated the death of the volunteer late last year nor reported it to St.
Elizabeth's institutional review board, a panel that is charged by law with
safeguarding patients enrolled in experiments at the medical center.

   In the other case, Isner's research team injected genetic material into a
volunteer's heart in September even though X-rays taken at St. Elizabeth's just
before the treatment showed evidence of a growth in his lung. Although at least
two follow-up X-rays soon after the treatment again revealed the lung mass,
there is no written indication that he or his private doctor was told about the
problem, the letter states.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000


                             594 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 3, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: A MEDICAL MILEPOST

BODY:


GENE THERAPY

   SOMETHING happened in a gene therapy trial last week that never happened
before: Success. Doctors in France announced that they had cured three infants
of a potentially fatal immune system disorder.

   After a decade of talk about the promise of gene therapy -- and a difficult
six months when all such experiments in the United States were shut down
following the death of a patient in Philadelphia -- it was gratifying news.

   The three French infants were unable to develop complete immune systems. A
bone marrow transplant offered some hope of a cure. Otherwise, each would have
faced life in a plastic bubble, isolated from disease-causing germs that could
quickly kill them.

   Instead, science intervened, and all three were completely cured. So for most
of us, gene therapy now calls to mind the image of healthy babies facing a
bright future, not family snapshots of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger who died last
year in Philadelphia. And the success of this revolutionary treatment will
increase pressure to resume gene therapy research here.

   With the appropriate safeguards, there's no reason to continue the ban. But
it's important that we not lose sight of Mr. Gelsinger's death as we race toward
medicine's bright future.

   Progress occurs at an agonizingly slow pace that no one can predict. There
will certainly be more gene therapy success stories. But there will also be
failures. While we have reached a milestone, the finish line is still too far
away to see.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000


                             595 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 2000 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         May 3, 2000 Wednesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST DIDN'T REPORT DEATH IN GENE THERAPY TRIAL, FDA SAYS

BYLINE: By Deborah Nelson and Rick Weiss The Washington Post

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A Tufts University scientist failed to report the death of a volunteer in his
gene therapy experiments and put other participants' lives at risk, including a
patient with early signs of cancer that may have spread as a result of the
treatment, federal officials said Tuesday.

   Patients suspected of having cancer were to be excluded from the study
because it involves a treatment that fosters the growth of new blood vessels,
known to feed tumors. But a volunteer diagnosed with a lung mass was enrolled
anyway, and his tumor doubled in size within three months of treatment.

   In another case, a volunteer had a heart attack after a gene infusion to her
heart, and died from complications a few months later. The scientist and his
team waited months before they revealed the problems to hospital officials
overseeing the experiment's safety. And even then, only the complications and
not the death were reported.

   These and other alleged violations of federal research rules are detailed in
a nine-page warning letter from the Food and Drug Administration to Jeffrey
Isner, who led the research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston.

   The letter raises serious questions about the quality and safety of Isner's
high-profile efforts to grow new blood vessels in patients with heart disease
and other circulatory problems. Those efforts have been stalled since late
February, when the FDA ordered a halt to four human gene therapy experiments
that Isner oversaw.

   The new revelations come at a time when the field of gene therapy is trying
to recover from a spate of bad publicity. The experiments have been under
intense public and regulatory scrutiny since the death in September of a
teen-age volunteer in a University of Pennsylvania experiment.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000


                             596 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 The Washington Post

                               The Washington Post

                     May 3, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Patient's Death In Gene Tests Not Reported; FDA Cites Many Other
Lapses

BYLINE: Deborah Nelson; Rick Weiss , Washington Post Staff Writers

BODY:


   A Tufts University scientist failed to report the death of a volunteer in his
gene therapy experiments and put other participants' lives at risk, including a
patient with early signs of cancer that may have spread as a result of the
treatment, federal officials charged yesterday.

   Patients suspected of having cancer were supposed to be excluded from the
study because it involves a treatment that fosters the growth of new blood
vessels, which are known to feed tumors. Yet a volunteer diagnosed with a lung
mass was enrolled anyway, and his tumor doubled in size within three months of
treatment.

   In another case, a volunteer had a heart attack after getting a gene infusion
in her heart, and died from complications a few months later. But the scientist
and his team waited months before revealing the problems to hospital officials
overseeing the experiment's safety. And even then, only the complications and
not the death were reported.

   These and other alleged violations of federal research rules are detailed in
a nine-page warning letter from the Food and Drug Administration to Jeffrey
Isner, who led the research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston.

   The letter raises serious questions about the quality and safety of Isner's
high-profile efforts to grow new blood vessels in patients with heart disease
and other circulatory problems. Those efforts, which for a time seemed to offer
a miraculous way to grow crucial blood vessels around blocked ones, have been
stalled since late February, when the FDA ordered a halt to four human gene
therapy experiments that Isner oversaw pending the completion of its inspection.

   More generally, the new revelations come at a time when the field of gene
therapy is trying to recover from a spate of bad publicity. The experimental
approach, which tries to cure diseases by giving people new genes, has been
under intense public and regulatory scrutiny since the death in September of a
teenage volunteer in a University of Pennsylvania experiment. Federal regulators
ultimately concluded that the Penn experiment and many others around the country
were not in compliance with federal rules.

   The Boston experiments were sponsored by St. Elizabeth's and by Vascular
Genetics Inc. of Durham, N.C., a company that Isner cofounded to commercialize
gene therapy discoveries.

   Isner and other representatives of Vascular Genetics could not be reached for
comment. But in March, Vascular Genetics President John Cumming said the company
was complying with the FDA's request for information and was "very comfortable
with the data."

   According to the FDA letter, Isner's research team neither properly
investigated the death of the volunteer late last year nor reported it to St.
Elizabeth's institutional review board, a panel that is charged by law with
safeguarding patients enrolled in experiments at the medical center.

   The volunteer's heart stopped after receiving a direct injection of genetic
material in June 1998, leading to multiple organ failure and, four months later,
death, the letter states. The chief pathologist told FDA officials that he
removed the heart and turned it over to Isner, who performed the autopsy even
though he apparently didn't have hospital authorization or board certification
to conduct autopsies.

   In addition, Isner didn't inform the institutional review board that the
volunteer had suffered any complications until 1999, the letter states. Even
then, he only reported that the volunteer required a two-month hospital stay,
without mentioning that the person died, the letter states. It is unclear
whether the gene therapy caused the death.

   In the other case, Isner's research team injected genetic material into a
volunteer's heart in September even though X-rays taken at St. Elizabeth's just
before the treatment showed evidence of a growth in his lung. Although at least
two follow-up X-rays soon after the treatment again revealed the lung mass,
there is no written indication that he or his private doctor was told about the
problem, the letter states. It was only after the patient suffered chest pains
in late October that his personal doctor told him he had cancer.

   When the volunteer returned to St. Elizabeth's in December for a routine gene
therapy follow-up, a new X-ray showed that the lesion had doubled in size.

   "A reasonable possibility exists that circulating [gene material] contributed
to the tumor growth," the FDA letter states.

   Yet, the team didn't perform the necessary tests to determine if the genetic
treatment might be contributing to the spread, according to the FDA letter.
Moreover, records show that the enlarged tumor was initially deemed to be a
"severe" adverse event, a class of complication that must be promptly reported
to regulators. Later, however, someone changed the word "severe" to "mild."

   In addition, the letter states, other patients were enrolled who were not
eligible to participate, and many volunteers never received the physical
examinations or laboratory tests that the FDA-approved protocol had required
before and after treatment.

   The FDA letter gives Isner 15 days to respond with a plan for correcting the
deficiencies.

   Researchers found in violation of federal regulations face a range of
possible punishments, including being barred from conducting federally funded
research.

   A hospital spokeswoman said officials there have been investigating the
issues raised by the FDA but would have no immediate comment.


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2000


                             597 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 2000 The Cincinnati Enquirer
                             All Rights Reserved
                            The Cincinnati Enquirer

                        May 2, 2000 Tuesday West Edition

SECTION: MET; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Congrats

BODY:

   Oyler student wins essay contest

   Curtis Holloway, a fifth-grader at Oyler Elementary School from Price Hill,
is a winner of the essay contest, "What the Statue of Liberty Means to America
and to Me." He received a $50 U.S. Savings Bond and his entry was submitted in
the grand prize contest to win a four-day trip for three to New York City.

   The contest was sponsored by Traco Windows of Cranberry Township, Pa. Traco
made the 25 windows for the Statue of Liberty's crown.

   UNC graduate

   Andrew Alvis received a bachelor of business degree in business
administration - finance from the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, at
winter commencement.

   He is the son of Judy Alvis of Colerain Township.

   Research work

   Vanessa Shaw, a senior biology major at Hampton University in Hampton, Va.
spent 10 weeks in Singapore last summer doing clinical research in gene therapy.
She plans to continue on to graduate school in the fall.

   Ms. Shaw, a graduate of Winton Woods High School, lives in Forest Park.

   Northwest scholar

   Pesey Pich, a junior at Northwest High School from Colerain Township,
participated in the Presidential Classroom Scholars Program in Washington, D.C.,
in February.

   She and other students spent a week meeting with government leaders learning
about the democratic process. The week also included a private tour of the White
House, small group visits to a foreign embassy, and appointments in the offices
of their senators and representatives on Capitol Hill.

   Awarded grant

   David Kissel, a public relations - journalism major at Ohio University in
Athens, has been awarded a $500 scholarship from the Mutual Benefit Credit
Union. He is a resident of Monfort Heights.

   Honor student

   Sarah Thompson, a senior at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind., was named
to the fall semester academic honors list.

   She is the daughter of Andrew and Elizabeth Thompson of Wyoming.

   Congrats runs daily. Call 860-7100. Fax 860-5190. Mail Congrats, The
Cincinnati Enquirer, Tri-County Bureau, 4820 Business Center Way, Cincinnati
45246.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003


                             598 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 2000 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                         May 2, 2000 Tuesday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: MEDICAL FRONTIERS

BYLINE: William Hathaway

BODY:

   Tantrums And Heart Attacks

    Getting ticked off is bad for your ticker.

       That bit of folk wisdom got some scientific backing Monday with the
publication of research that shows people who score high on anger tests were
more than 2 1/2 times more likely to have a heart attack than their
mild-mannered peers.
    Even those who were rated as moderate on the anger scale were 35 percent
more likely to have a heart attack than the most tranquil, according to the
study published in Circulation: Journal of the American Heart Association.
    The study of 256 heart-attack patients was conducted by researchers at the
University of North Carolina.
    "These findings were also true even after taking into account the
presence of risk factors such as smoking, having diabetes, cholesterol levels
and excess weight," said Janice H. Williams, lead author of the study.
    However, the link between bad temper and risk of heart attack held only
for those with normal blood pressure. Angry or not, patients with high blood
pressure already had an elevated risk.
    Some 13,000 subjects without known heart disease were given tests designed
to measure anger levels before developing heart disease. Eight percent had
scores indicating a high level of anger, 55 percent moderate level and 37
percent low.
   The highest scorers were 2.69 times more likely to later have a heart
attack than those who were ranked lowest in anger.
    Scientists speculated that stress hormones released during angry outbursts
may make it more likely for plaques to break off artery walls, leading to
heart attacks.

   Replenishing Brain Cells
   A critical network of brain cells that wither with age can be rejuvenated
in monkeys by a new gene-therapy technique, researchers report. The study was
presented Sunday by researchers at the University of California at San Diego
attending the American Academy of Neurology's annual meeting.
   In monkeys studied, normal aging causes a 28 percent decline in cholinergic
neurons, a key family of brain cells deep within the brain, researchers said.
The cells are believed to play a key role in memory and other mental functions
that tend to deteriorate with age.
   Scientists tried to reverse the loss by transplanting cells engineered to
release nerve growth factor, a protein known to help brain cells maintain
connections with other neurons within the brain.
   The scientists said the density of cholinergic neurons was greater in
brains of older monkeys that received the engineered genes than in similarly
aged monkeys that did not.
   "It would be inappropriate to suggest that this approach could be used to
treat the course of normal aging," said Dr. Mark Tuszynski, principal author
of the report. "But it is not a far stretch to suggest this may be useful in
the treatment of Alzheimer's disease."
   The researchers say the next step is to test the safety of gene therapy in
Alzheimer's patients.

   Cancer Drug Warning
   A promising new cancer treatment could cause serious damage to the liver
and should not be tested in humans, a University of Pittsburgh scientist
warned Monday.
   In an unusual move, associate professor Stephen Strom published his doubts
about the safety of the experimental drug TRAIL in the journal Nature
Medicine.
   TRAIL -- tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand -- is
designed to prompt the immune system's response to cancer by promoting its
ability to order defective cells to commit suicide.
    Tests in animals showed no toxicity, and developers of the drug, Genetech
of South San Francisco and Immunex Corp. of Seattle, had said they hoped to
start human trials later this year.
    However, tests on human liver cells in the laboratory show that the drug
kills healthy cells and could potentially lead to catastrophic liver failure,
Strom reported.
   "Significant toxicity could result if TRAIL were used in human cancer
therapy," Strom reported.
   Immunex officials said Strom had used a less pure and slightly different
protein in his experiment than the one the company is developing. It is
working with Strom to try to duplicate his results.

   Phantom Limb Pain Explained
   The mystery of so-called phantom limb syndrome may be solved.
   Researchers report that the pain that amputees say they experience in lost
limbs most likely is caused by the sudden growth of neurons in areas of the
brain suddenly deprived of sensory input.
   Researchers at Vanderbilt University reported last week in the Proceedings
of the National Academy of Science that the brains of adult monkeys undergo
major reorganization after being deprived of the use of a limb or suffering a
traumatic injury to their spinal cord.
   "Until recently, the prevailing view has been that this kind of
regenerative growth is unlikely to occur in adult brains," said Neeraj Jain,
assistant professor of psychology and co-author of the report.



LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000


                             599 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                              May 2, 2000, Tuesday

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: BREAKTHROUGHS ON THE HORIZON

BYLINE: Hallie Levine

BODY:

   Breast cancer is the most common cancer among American women, with about
182,000 new cases expected to be diagnosed this year.

   But there's good news: Death rates are declining significantly - and will
continue to do so, experts believe, because of promising advances in prevention
and treatment.

   Here are some of them:

   * IMMUNO-GENE THERAPY

   Between 15 and 30 percent of breast-cancer patients develop deadly brain
metastases, or cancer deposits. Two weeks ago, neurosurgeons at Chicago's Rush
Medical College reported that an experimental treatment with a cellular vaccine
significantly prolonged survival in mice with the same condition. Testing in
humans is expected to begin soon.

   * HERCEPTIN

   Herceptin made headlines two years ago when researchers discovered it stops
the growth of a protein known as HER2/nue, present in high levels in some breast
cancers. New research shows that patients who receive chemotherapy with
Herceptin have a significantly lower risk of dying than women who have standard
chemotherapy alone.

   * THERAPY WITHOUT SURGERY

   Dr. Steve Parker of the Denver-based Sally Jobe Breast Center is perfecting a
procedure in which a surgeon makes a tiny incision in a woman's breast, threads
in a wire and, using radio-frequency energy, blasts cancerous cells away.

   * FENRETINIDE

   This is a drug similar to vitamin A that may prevent a recurrence of breast
cancer in premenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer. But, since the
study also found that fenretinide can slightly increase the risk of second
breast cancer in menopausal women, doctors say more studies are needed.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000


                             600 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2000 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                        May 1, 2000 Monday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 026

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Biotechs regain lost ground - White-hot genomics lead charge within
sector

BODY:

   Massachusetts biotech companies got a shot in the arm at the end of last week
as the shell-shocked sector staged a remarkable rally on Wall Street.

   Millennium Pharmaceuticals of Cambridge leapt $ 16.13 to $ 79.38, Alkermes
jumped $ 3.63 to $ 53.25, and Biogen rose $ 4.25 to $ 58.81. Genome Therapeutics
of Waltham rose $ 3.75 to $ 17.13.

   Overall, the 17-member Amex Biotechnology Index jumped by 14 percent, its
biggest one-day percentage increase in nine years.

   The Nasdaq's biotech index, made up of about a dozen of the largest U.S. and
European biotech firms, climbed nearly 8 percent, or 69.63 points, to 952.75.

   Helping spark the rally was renewed excitement over genomics, after
researchers reported success in a gene-therapy treatment on two babies with the
so-called "bubble-boy" syndrome, which destroys the immune system. That news,
coupled with recent medical reports on such advances as cloning animals,
rekindled confidence about the financial prospects for genomics companies,
analysts said.

   Advanced Cell Technology Inc. of Worcester said last Thursday that it had
cloned six calves using a technique that rewound the aging process in cells.

   "Our results show that cloning actually has the potential to reverse the
aging of cells," said Dr. Robert P. Lanza, an ACT vice president.

   The field of genomics is the discovery, analysis and manipulation of genetic
information to help develop drugs, agricultural products and industrial
processes.

   If the rally is sustained it will prove excellent news for Bay State
companies that need to raise more equity capital to finance their research.

   "There are a great number of companies that are trying to raise capital. They
all stood back because of the recent market conditions," said analyst Franklin
P. Berger at investment bank J.P. Morgan.

   "They'll be looking at this and thinking about when they can jump back in."

   A rush of cash calls may be some time away. Despite the gains of the past few
weeks, investors are frazzled and many retailer traders are heavily out of
pocket.

   Biotech shares remain a long way below the peaks of last month. The Nasdaq's
biotech index is about 41 percent below its record close of 1,619.98, set March
7.

   Stock in some of Massachusetts' leaders has fared even worse. Millennium is
down 49 percent from its mid-February peak. Biogen is off nearly 55 percent
since early March. Alkermes has fallen 73 percent from its peak, and Genome
Therapeutics is off 77 percent.

   But the excitement over the prospects of genomics was shared by retail
investors, who helped push many genomics stocks to record highs earlier this
year.

   "Next week genomics will be red hot!!," said an item on Celera's Yahoo!
message board posted by somebody with the nickname Internet-Gambler. "Load up
before other people have had a chance."

   Leaders in the sector led the market last Friday. Celera shares rose $ 16.75,
or 25 percent, to $ 82.50. Sequenom rose $ 2.38, or 11 percent, to $ 24.25.
Human Genome Sciences rose $ 13.94, or 22 percent, to $ 76.56.

   Diversa gained $ 4.38, or 19 percent, to $ 27. The company issued a press
release saying it has won a patent that expands protection of its technology to
collect and store genetic samples.

   The volatile biotech sector has always been sensitive to the flow of news.
The stocks have tumbled dramatically since mid-March when a statement by
President Clinton was interpreted by Wall Street as a challenge to biotech
companies' property rights over genes. He later distanced himself from that
interpretation.

   Analyst Carl Gordon of OrbiMed Advisors said he did not believe that
fundamentals for the biotech group had changed. Instead, he speculated that
investors were bargain-hunting for quality biotechs whose share prices have
plummeted from highs seen before a sector-wide downturn in early March.

   Roger Wise, the managing director of Burrill & Co. in San Francisco, a
private merchant bank specializing in biotech companies, believes that the rally
shows investors are returning to their earlier faith in the astronomic potential
of genomics stocks.

   "Stocks that had been overvalued in the past were suddenly beginning to look
like bargains again," Wise said. "And there has been some positive news flow.
People are coming back to the realization that biotech and life sciences are
going to be the future of health care and agriculture."

   Friday's jump was also helped by the week's rally across the technology
front. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index rose another 86.63 points to close
at 3,860.66, up more than 400 points in four days.

   Biotech stocks have recently proved an exaggerated tracker of the wider
technology sector.

   "When the Nasdaq (composite) goes up, the Nasdaq biotech index often goes up
even more. Maybe that's because biotechs are super risky and super high-tech and
are therefore that much more attractive to some momentum investors," OrbiMed's
Gordon said.

   Photo Caption: ALONG FOR THE RIDE: Shares in Bay State biotechs, pummeled
recently in an industrywide downturn, regained ground late last week. Here,
workers take notes inside the Genzyme plant in Allston. Herald file photo


LOAD-DATE: May 01, 2000
