
                             1601 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      March 8, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Biotechnology vs. cancer 200 drugs move from the lab to human trials

BYLINE: Tim Friend

BODY:

   Cancer patients looking for alternatives to standard treatments
such as chemotherapy will be able to enroll in studies this year
of nearly 200 drugs that are being developed by the biotechnology
industry.

   The experimental drugs represent the first wave of long-awaited
biological treatments that are designed to exploit the body's
natural cancer-fighting forces, experts say. Many of these biotechnology
approaches have been in development for nearly two decades, surrounded
by hints of hope and a lot of hype.

   But despite many false starts and outright failures, remarkable
progress has been made in understanding the molecular and genetic
pathways that lead to cancer and in how the immune system works.


   All of this knowledge finally has propelled the biological treatments
out of the laboratory and animal tests and into human studies.

   "I think we can finally move on from the era of hype to one of
real hope," says Marty Murphy, founder of the Hipple Cancer Research
Center and chairman of AlphaMed Consulting in Cary, N.C.

   Today, 57 experimental biotech cancer therapies are in Phase 3
clinical studies, the latest stage of testing, at major cancer
centers in the USA and Europe, says Peter Ginsberg, senior biotechnology
research analyst at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. An additional
120 to 180 are in Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies, says Ginsberg,
who monitors biotechnology companies and the development of their
cancer drugs for investors. Most of the studies still are recruiting
patients.

   Alan Houghton, chief of clinical immunology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York, is overseeing a dozen clinical trials.
Houghton helped pioneer the first trials of so-called monoclonal
antibodies in 1983. He often has experienced the frustration of
nursing biotechnology through its infancy.

   "We knew there would be substantial hurdles" to demonstrating
that biological strategies could work in humans, he says. "It
has taken us 16 years before having any proof ... that
these things will work."

   Information about new approaches can be found by contacting the
companies directly; by checking out the Biotechnology Industry
Organization's Web site, www.bio.org, which lists individual companies
by name; or by calling the National Cancer Institute's hot line
at 800-422-6237.

   Among the more promising biotech approaches to cancer treatment:

   * "Vaccines" made from cancer patients' own tumors that
stimulate the immune system to single out and attack only cancer
cells.

   * "Magic bullets," or monoclonal antibodies, that target
cancer cells and can alert the immune system or deliver cancer-fighting
agents, or both.

   * Biological agents that interfere with the life cycle
of cancer cells, causing them to commit suicide.

   * Gene therapies that deliver viruses or proteins that
kill cells or make them vulnerable to the immune system.

   * Anti-angiogenesis drugs that starve tumors of their blood
supplies.

   * Natural proteins that shield healthy tissues from the
ravages of chemotherapy and radiation.

   The treatments are being tested against most leading cancers,
including cancers of the breast, prostate, head and neck, lung,
kidneys, pancreas, blood, lymphatic tissues, colon and rectum.
Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas also are targets
of the new approaches.

   This year, 1.2 million cases of cancer will be diagnosed in the
USA. For 60% of patients, there is no effective therapy. Even
so, cancer drugs generate $ 6 billion a year in sales worldwide.
By 2030, the number will be $ 62.7 billion.

   Cancer drugs are big business, and watching where and how the
money is spent offers insight into what insiders regard as the
most promising treatments.

   Traditionally, cancer treatments are first designed in an academic
lab using funds provided by the National Institutes of Health.
Then major pharmaceutical companies take over development of promising
leads.

   Today, the 200 biotechnology drugs in development are coming not
from big drug companies, but from small companies fueled with
more than $ 1 billion from stockholders and venture capitalists.
That figure represents a lot of ordinary people who are betting
with their checkbooks that the biotech approach to cancer treatment
will work, Ginsberg says.

   Anthony Butler of Lehman Brothers, an investment bank in New York,
says major drug companies have made 53 deals with biotechnology
companies on new breast cancer therapies, 37 for prostate cancer
drugs and 33 for ovarian cancer treatments. Most of the leading
drug companies now employ young people with doctorates to monitor
the biotechnology industry for ideas and products and to get there
first with a deal.

   Executives at Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck told USA TODAY that
the biological approaches have become so promising that the companies
are abandoning development of traditional cancer chemotherapy
drugs. In addition to the new partnerships, most of the major
drug companies are developing biotechnology laboratories of their
own.

   Over the next two years, as Phase 3 clinical trial data begin
streaming in, the truth about biological treatments will be told.

   "Some of the new technologies are going to work at some point,"
Houghton says. "I can't tell yet in what situation or when, but
I believe the cancer vaccines will work. There is no question
these will hit pay dirt."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY; Vaccine team: Alan Houghton,
foreground, Philip O. Livingston, back left, and Paul B. Chapman, all of whom
work at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, were instrumental in
developing cancer vaccines. Chapman is holding GMK, a vaccine against the
recurrence of melanoma.

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1999


                             1602 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                             March 7, 1999, Sunday

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 062

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: DOING WHAT SUITS HIM ; FROM MOVIES TO REAL ESTATE, KIMMEL'S TIES GO
WELL BEYOND SEVENTH AVENUE

BYLINE: SARI BOTTON

BODY:

   WALL Street frowned this week when women's clothing giant Jones Apparel Group
acquired troubled, mid-priced footwear company Nine West Group.

   But Jones chairman Sidney Kimmel was unfazed by the skeptics. He sees endless
opportunity in Nine West - and based on his record, there's no reason to doubt
him. Kimmel's canny risk-taking has brought him stellar success in everything
from the motion-picture industry - he produced "9 Weeks," among other films - to
the billion-dollar-plus clothing company he built from the ground up.

   Thanks to Kimmel's acquisitiveness, Jones Apparel now owns a lengthy list of
brands ranging from Polo to Evan-Picone.

   Yet for all his shrewdness and his copious appetite for new labels, the
media-shy Kimmel is also quite well-known for his generosity and the breadth of
his interests. A lifelong bachelor, Kimmel makes huge donations to arts
organizations in his native Philadelphia, funded the march on breast cancer in
Washington last year, and gave $5 million for gene-therapy research to the San
Diego Regional Cancer Center.

   His successes expand beyond Seventh Avenue into Hollywood - Kimmel was a
producer of such films as "Rad," "Blame It on Rio," "9 Weeks," and "Clan of the
Cave Bear" - and onto the basketball court, with his small interest in the Miami
Heat basketball team. He has also made substantial contributions to the
Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C.

   In recent years, he has started to dabble in real estate.

   In Manhattan, he owns 55 Wall Street, which is being transformed into a
Regent hotel after decades as corporate office space. The site housed the hugely
hyped Victoria's Secret cyber fashion show.

   Kimmel also recently increased his stake in Cipriani International to 20
percent from 10 percent. Cipriani said it was pulling out of 55 Wall at the same
time Kimmel's increased stake was unveiled.

   In many ways, Kimmel is just coming into his own.

   "He never married, has no close family, no children," said Herbert
Goodfriend, Jones Apparel Group's secretary and director of corporate
development, who also sits on the board, "so he's doing good things for other
people.

   "He has accumulated in the last 12 or 13 years a large fortune, and he's
trying to do the right things with it."

   But Kimmel's choices as a businessman don't always sit well with others - at
least not at first. Take his purchase of Nine West.

   As a result of the buy, ratings agencies took Jones' debt down a peg and
investors took out their displeasure on the company's stock, bidding it down
more than 10 percent, cutting about $340 million in value from the balance
sheet.

   Everyone seemed to be wondering what Kimmel might have been thinking when he
agreed to take on the ailing shoemaker and retailer.

   After all, didn't Nine West just see its profits plummet to $18.8 million
last year from $34.6 million in 1997? And didn't the Federal Trade Commission
probe into price-fixing.

   Maybe. But if Kimmel is worried, he's hiding it well.

   "We could write a book on the opportunities here," Kimmel boasted in print
hours after the deal was announced, even as investors seemed to balk.

   It might be a longshot, but at 71 years old and with a stellar record of
achievement at Jones - which he has built from scratch into a $1.7 billion
juggernaut - Kimmel seems a good bet.

   The son of a Philadelphia cabbie, Kimmel built his reputation - not to
mention his $850 million net worth, according to Forbes - on gutsy mergers and
acquisitions and a keen management eye.

   For example, Jones has been such a consistent money-maker that 18 months ago,
Kimmel was about to sell 4.5 million additional shares himself - and pocket
roughly $275 million - without the company taking much of a hit.

   The executive did not return phone calls seeking comment on the Nine West
deal or his managment philosophy.

   Kimmel - who owns 15 percent of outstanding shares of Jones Apparel Group -
has a reputation for aggressively pursuing acquisitions and then applying a
Midas touch, turning them into profitable components of an ever-growing
enterprise.

   Jones Apparel Group, which Kimmel founded in 1970 and took public in 1991,
has been buying other companies and licenses steadily throughout its history.
Last year, it added Sun Apparel - which owned the Polo, Todd Oldham and Sasson
Jeans brands and manufactured several private label lines - to a lineup that
already included such major brands as Jones New York, Evan-Picone, Rena Rowan
and Saville and licenses for Lauren by Ralph Lauren and Ralph by Ralph Lauren.

   The acquisition of Nine West adds another helping of names to the roster,
including Nine West, Amalfi, Enzo Angiolini, Bandolino, Easy Spirit, Luca B. for
Calico, 9 & Co., Pappagallo, Pied a Terre, Selby, Westies, Shoe Studio Group
Limited and the licensed cK/Calvin Klein.

   Typically, Kimmel's aggressive purchasing raises eyebrows. But prior to this
week's Nine West acquisition, his judgment hadn't been so seriously questioned.
Analysts wondered whether Nine West - which announced it will close 60 of its
1,095 stores this year - could be turned around and whether there was enough
synergy between apparel and shoes. There were also concerns as to whether Mark
Schwartz, a Jones board member and former investment banker, had the right
experience to take the helm of Nine West.

   Jennifer Black, an analyst and executive vice president of Black & Co. in
Portland, Ore., agrees. "They're acquiring the company at a good value right
now," she said, adding that she has tremendous respect for Kimmel.

   "Wall Street has frequently been skeptical of him, but he has always proven
them wrong," she said.


GRAPHIC: MULTIFACETED: Skeptics don't faze Jone's Apparel chairman Sidney
Kimmel.Ismael Roldan

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1999


                             1603 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)



                      March 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: FLORIDA/METRO, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Rebecca's courage;
Rebecca Veeck, 7, is bright, funny and full of life. She also has a disease that
is robbing her;
of sight.;

BYLINE: JOE HENDERSON, of The Tampa Tribune;

BODY:


   ST. PETERSBURG - Mike Veeck had just pulled his car out of the Stouffer-Vinoy
Resort, headed home  from a Sunday brunch with Rebecca, his 7-year-old daughter.
It was a beautiful Florida sun-splashed  day. A day for fun and play under the
bright blue sky and mild Gulf breeze.

   A perfect day.

   But Mike wasn't ready for what happened next. No parent could be.

   Rebecca turned to him, and her words hit with the innocence of a child and
the force of a bomb.

   "Daddy ... it's all right if I go blind."

   His hands grew sweaty on the steering wheel and his mouth and throat turned
suddenly desert dry.  His mind was filled with fear, but before tears could form
and roll down his cheeks he forced a  smile at Rebecca and said, "Honey, let's
look at the sky."

   Rebecca has a rare form of retinitis pigmentosa called cone rod dystrophy, a
relentless disease  that will rob her sight unless research finds a cure. She
was diagnosed just last fall, shortly  after Veeck was named senior vice
president for sales and marketing for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.

   The disease is genetic, although neither of Rebecca's parents have shown any
symptoms. Experts  say the disease attacks the central vision first, then causes
color and night blindness. Gradually  the person's vision shrinks until total
blindness occurs. The disease tends to be progressive and  rapid.

   And unstoppable.

   Her mother, Libby, said the affliction was detected when Rebecca went for a
routine exam before  entering elementary school in St. Petersburg.

   "Everything else was great, but then she couldn't read the E on top of the
eye chart," Libby said.  "I thought she was kidding, but then she got so
frustrated and upset I knew something was wrong."

   There followed trips to several eye specialists for detailed and sometimes
painful tests, always  with the same grim prognosis. There is no timetable for
when Rebecca will lose her sight completely  - she is still in school, but must
wear sunglasses - and neither parent has told Rebecca the  inevitable outcome of
her affliction.

   "But she knows something is wrong," Libby said.

   As she was talking, Rebecca was clowning with her father for a camera crew
from CNN. She is a  delight - impish, constantly in motion, her blond hair
flying as she jumps and laughs and cartwheels  and does all the things
7-year-olds are supposed to do.

   Her father is himself a legendary rogue with a weak spot for children and
laughter. Mike is the  son of Bill Veeck, the former owner of the Chicago White
Sox who lived to poke fun at the baseball  establishment. Life was a carnival
and baseball was the midway. He would do anything for a laugh or  to get
attention.

   Bill Veeck once sent a midget up to bat during a game, and Mike is definitely
his father's son.  As part owner of a minor-league baseball team in St. Paul,
Minn., Mike ran the gamut. He had a nun  give massages to fans. He offered
Darryl Strawberry a job when the player was out of baseball  because of alcohol
and tax evasion problems.

   Veeck also employed a blind radio announcer.

   "We had the only game program in baseball with a center spread printed in
Braille," he said  quietly. "Can you believe that? The irony ... ."

   His voice trailed off.

   REBECCA BEGAN LEARNING Braille a few weeks ago; that's why she told her
father it will be OK if  she goes blind. Otherwise, her parents say her grades
in school are still good and she doesn't yet  require special classes at St.
Petersburg's North Shore Elementary School.

   That doesn't mean things are smooth, though.

   Sunglasses are forbidden at her school, but Rebecca got a special waiver to
wear them because of  her condition. Because of that, a child recently taunted
her on the playground at school, "You're  going blind ..."

   To protect Rebecca, the Veecks initially declined to go public with details
of her disease, but  changed their minds in order to raise awareness of the
problem. Libby said her goal is for everyone  to have regular eye exams, and to
raise money for the Foundation for Fighting Blindness and similar
organizations.

   By talking openly though, the Veecks have gotten something in return -
support. One woman heard  their story and called from out of state, just to
talk. There have been many cards and letters and  offerings of hope.

   "I tell her to be very positive," said Betti Lidsky, who is a national
trustee of the Foundation  for Fighting Blindness. Three of Lidsky's four
children have retinitis pigmentosa, and she has been  a vocal and visible
spokeswoman for this cause in Miami.

   Libby was given Lidsky's telephone number but resisted calling at first.
Lidsky, who was told by  a mutual friend to eventually expect Libby's call,
understood what the family is going through.

   "We were in shock when we first found out about our children," she said. "My
husband cried for a  year and a half, but that's when we decided to be
proactive.

   "I had Libby's number taped to my phone, but I didn't call it because I knew
she wasn't ready to  talk about it. It just takes time to work through the
issues and start reaching out to people."

   THE HOPE FOR REBECCA and others like her lies in ongoing research.

   German researchers may be close to perfecting a retinal prosthesis, or
computer chip, that could  be implanted into the eye and restore at least
partial vision.

   "That's the bionic eye," Lidsky said.

   Other researchers are focusing on genetic causes of eye afflictions, possibly
leading to  treatments. A recent University of Florida study found that 93
percent of rodents treated with gene  therapy had improved vision.

   The Foundation for Fighting Blindness also holds out hope for a drug called
Axokine that has  shown promise in preliminary tests. It expects to win
government approval for clinical trials to  begin next year.

   "We're pursuing two different tracks at the same time: research to stop the
progression of the  disease, and research to restore vision," foundation
spokesman Tom Hoglund said. "We feel like some  exciting breakthroughs will
happen in the near future."

   What does that mean for Rebecca?

   "The fact she is so young would mean that even if she completely loses her
vision, there may be a  chance to restore it," Hoglund said.

   Maybe.

   "I'm conditioning myself for the worst, but I'm hoping for the best," Mike
said.

   That's probably all anyone can do for now. One day at a time.

   Rebecca will go to Emory University in April for a follow-up exam that will
show how much the  disease has advanced, but her parents don't need experts to
confirm what they already know.

   Rebecca recently couldn't see her mother momentarily, although Libby was in
front of her and  just a few feet away. That had never happened before, and
Rebecca was frightened and called out in  fear. It tore at Libby's and Mike's
hearts. The helplessness tears at them more.

   So each night when it's just the two of them, no matter what, Mike and Libby
talk. They admit  their fears, they hold each other, they vent.

   Then they live another day.

   Libby takes Rebecca to a lake, where they feed the ducks and look at the
birds. Mike takes her  to his office at Tropicana Field, where she charms the
staff and makes them giggle. They don't dare  cry in front of her.

   They dance. They play. They even laugh.

   They look at the sky.

   And hope that maybe, somehow, it will be all right.  Joe Henderson covers the
Tampa Bay Devil Rays and can be reached at (813) 259-7861 or
jhenderson@tampatrib.com  For further information on sight disorders, call
1-800-610-4558 or visit

   http://www.blindness.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Tampa Bay Devil Rays executive Mike Veeck enjoys a moment with his
daughter, 7-year-old Rebecca, who has retinitis pigmentosa. The disease
gradually causes color and night blindness. Over time, the person's vision
shrinks until total blindness occurs.  MARK GUSS, Tribune photo

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1999


                             1604 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      March 2, 1999, Tuesday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Cancers of the breast, prostate linked to gene

BYLINE: By Judy Foreman, Globe Staff

BODY:

   California researchers said yesterday that a gene implicated in breast cancer
appears to play an important role in prostate cancer as well.

    The finding suggests that a new drug called Herceptin, approved in September
for women with advanced breast cancer, may help combat prostate cancer, too.
Prostate cancer is expected to kill about 37,000 men this year and strike
179,300, according to the American Cancer Society.

    The new research is published in the March issue of Nature Medicine. In a
separate study in the same journal, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
researchers say they have found a genetic "switch" that may underlie 90 percent
of prostate cancers and may be reversible.

    Since the 1940s, researchers have known that some cancers, including
prostate cancer, are driven by hormones. In fact, one of the key treatments for
prostate cancer - along with surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy - is to
deprive the body of hormones called androgens, through chemical or surgical
castration, in order to slow the growth of tumors.

    But if a man with prostate cancer lives long enough, chances are his cancer
will become independent of androgen and learn to grow again, even if his
androgen levels have been kept low. When this happens, there is no effective
treatment.

    Until now, no one understood how this independence occurred. But Dr. Charles
L. Sawyers, director of the prostate cancer program at the University of
California School of Medicine in Los Angeles, said his team now believes that a
gene called HER-2/neu, which is known to spur breast cancer growth, is involved.
Sawyers said in a telephone interview yesterday that the gene seems to stimulate
androgen receptors on prostate cancer cells, "even when no androgen is around."

    The team studied a special strain of mice into which human prostate tumors
were introduced. Initially, these tumors needed androgen to grow. But as the
tumors became androgen-independent, the researchers noticed that the activity of
the HER-2/neu gene was spontaneously increased. They also showed that by
deliberately giving mice extra quantities of the HER-2/neu gene, the prostate
cancers became androgen-independent.

    If the HER-2/neu gene is indeed involved in making prostate cancer cells
androgen-independent, "we may see a new treatment modality sooner than we
thought," noted Dr. Tapio Visakorpi at the Laboratory of Cancer Genetics at the
University of Tampere in Finland in commentary published with the new study.

    The California team is investigating whether the drug Herceptin can block
this process of androgen-independence.

    At Johns Hopkins, Dr. Gary R. Pasternak, director of the division of
molecular pathology, and his team studied tissue samples from men with prostate
cancer. They found that in about 90 percent, a tumor suppressor gene called
pp32, whose role is to protect against cancer, is turned off in cancerous
tissue, but is still functioning in adjacent, healthy tissue, Pasternak said in
a telephone interview.

    In the cancerous tissue, two closely related genes, dubbed the "evil twins"
and technically called pp32R1 and pp32R2, are turned on. These genes "make
proteins that are almost identical" to the pp32 gene, Pasternak said, "but they
cause tumors. There is obviously a functional difference."

    "This seems to be occurring in 90 percent of garden-variety prostate
cancer," he said. And the same switching mechanism appears to be involved in
breast cancer, he added, although that research has not yet been published.

    The switching from the "good" gene to its evil twins suggests that, through
gene therapy or drugs, the switch could be turned back to the healthy form.

    "If we can understand how the switching process works, what controls it,"
said Pasternak in a prepared statement, "we can potentially reverse it. That's
our next task."

LOAD-DATE: March 02, 1999


                             1605 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          March 2, 1999 Tuesday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 6

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Breast cancer guidelines offer plain talk for patients
 Document will help women become partners in treatment, experts say

BYLINE: MARILYNN MARCHIONE

SOURCE: Journal
Sentinel staff

BODY:

   The American Cancer Society and a group of leading cancer centers have issued
the first patient treatment guidelines designed to help women get the
information they need and make better decisions after they've been diagnosed wi
th breast cancer.

   The guidelines were released Monday by the cancer society and the National
Comprehensive Cancer Network, a coalition of 17 cancer centers around the United
States. They translate into everyday language the same medical gu idelines that
the two organizations published in 1997 for doctors who treat breast cancer
patients.

   Similar guidelines for prostate cancer are expected to be issued in about two
months, followed by guidelines for lung, colon and rectum, and ovarian cancers;
as well as melanoma, a skin cancer; and lymphoma.

   "Patients will have at their fingertips versions of the same guidelines
physicians use" and can use the information to "make more informed decisions
about cancer care," sa id William McGivney, head of the network of cancer
centers.

   "The goal is to empower patients," said Ted Gansler, a physician who directs
the cancer society's health education efforts.

   The guidelines are "a tool that enables the patient to become a partner" in
her treatment, said Mary Lou Smith, head of the Y-ME National Breast Cancer
Organization, a patient advocacy group.

   "Patients diagnosed with cancer are hungry for information. They seek
information from whate ver source they can," Smith said. Sometimes, she said,
the information is good, and sometimes it's not.

   Milwaukee surgeon William Donegan, who also is a clinical professor of
medicine at the Medical College of Wisconsin, said newly diagnose d patients
often think they understand much about their disease, "but the understandings
are not accurate."

   "Some people come in very informed; other people, not so," he said. At the
very least, if they have the guidelines in hand and hav e done some reading, "it
provides a talking point" to focus questions, such as whether estrogen receptor
tests should be done, or whether lumpectomy is feasible in their case, he said.

   Margaret Tempero, a Nebraska cancer physician involved in writing the
guidelines, said they would help patients "to ask the right questions and to
participate fully in their care."

   The guidelines include "decision trees" showing key paths and options that
patients can take after learning they have breast cancer; further diagnostic
tests that can be done and what information they provide about the patient's
case; how cancer staging works, and what a particular disease stage means; and
what types of treatment options are available, including surgery, chemotherapy,
radiation, hormone treatments, and even experimental treatments such as gene
therapy.

   The guidelines were developed based on peer-reviewed medical studies,
clinical experience on how cancer patients have fared, and t he best medical
judgment of the majority of cancer experts.

   "Each guideline is reviewed at least annually," but those involving breast
cancer are updated almost continually, McGivney said.

   The cancer care network is a coalition o f 17 leading cancer centers around
the United States including Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Dana Farber and St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital. The closest Midwest site is Northwestern
University's Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center in Illi nois.
----------- To get the guidelines, patients can call the cancer society's
toll-free number, (800) ACS-2345, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
or visit the society's Web site, www.cancer.org.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1999


                             1606 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                     March 2, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Trials for gene heart therapy set to go

BYLINE: Tim Friend

BODY:

   Studies of the first gene therapy to restore the heart's pumping
ability are expected to begin late this year in people with congestive
heart failure.

   The trials are being designed by scientists at Collateral Therapeutics
of San Diego and will be conducted at academic cardiovascular
centers across the nation. They initially will involve 100 patients,
company co-founder Chris Reinhard says.


   Cardiologists will deliver a gene called AC-6 through a standard
cardiac catheter that is inserted through an artery in the groin.
The gene plays a central role in the heart muscle's "contractility,"
or pumping action: It instructs cells to produce an enzyme called
adenylylcyclase (AC), which makes heart muscle cells more responsive
to hormones that trigger muscle contractions.

   About 5 million Americans have congestive heart failure, and that
number will skyrocket as baby boomers age. The disease is characterized
by weakened heart muscle that fails to pump blood adequately.
That causes fluid to back up in the lungs and tissues, a lack
of oxygen and severe fatigue.

   Death rates from congestive heart failure have risen more than
120% since 1979. Ironically, people whose lives have been saved
by new heart attack treatments are the people at highest risk.

   Drugs that help rid the body of fluid and reduce demand on the
heart muscle are the standard treatment, but the disease is considered
incurable.

   Jack Reich, president of Collateral Therapeutics, says new animal
data on the gene therapy and an outline for the human studies
will be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration late in
the fall. The data will include mouse research, to be published
this month in Circulation, that shows the AC-6 gene restores
contractility of the heart muscle.

   Results of gene therapy in pigs with congestive heart failure,
to be presented at a scientific meeting in April, show that it
also increased heart function.

   If human studies are successful, AC-6 gene therapy could benefit
about 75% of people with congestive heart failure, Reich says.

   Valetin Fuster, president of the American Heart Association, says
genetic pathways that lead to heart disease are finally being
understood and are leading to biotechnology approaches to treatment.

   The first inroads have been in genetic approaches to growing new
blood vessels and to improving cholesterol.

   "Cardiac failure is next in terms of opening the door," Fuster
says. "I think genetic therapy may become an important approach."

LOAD-DATE: March 02, 1999


                             1607 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               THE BALTIMORE SUN

                        February 26, 1999, Friday ,FINAL

SECTION: TELEGRAPH ,10A

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Researchers seek more funding for diabetes work

SOURCE: REUTERS

BODY:

   WASHINGTON -- The death rate from diabetes has risen by 30 percent since
1980, while spending on diabetes research has fallen, researchers said
yesterday.

    A report by the Diabetes Research Working Group, set up by Congress and
including scientists, doctors, lobbyists and patients, said there are several
areas of research that offer great promise if the right funding gets there.

    These include tissue transplants that might offer a cure, gene therapy, and
greater understanding of obesity, one of the biggest causes of type-II diabetes.

    An estimated 135 million people worldwide, and 16 million Americans, have
diabetes. Most have the type-II or non-insulin dependent form, in which the body
does not respond properly to insulin and cannot manage blood fat and sugar
levels.

    The report said 200,000 Americans die every year from diabetes and that the
disease costs $100 billion in medical care and other expenses every year. It can
cause blindness, limb loss and other problems.

    "In both human and economic terms, diabetes has become a national public
health crisis," U.S. Rep. George Nethercutt, a Washington state Republican who
heads the congressional diabetes caucus, told a news conference.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999


                             1608 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1999 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                    February 26, 1999, Friday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Deaths from diabetes up; spending on cure down

SOURCE: Reuters News Service

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - The death rate from diabetes has risen by 30 percent since 1980,
while spending on diabetes research has fallen.

   A report by the Diabetes Research Working Group, set up by Congress and
including scientists, doctors, lobbyists and patients, said on Thursday that
there are several areas of research that offer great promise if the right
funding gets there.

   These include tissue transplants that might offer a cure, gene therapy and
greater understanding of obesity, one of the biggest causes of type-II diabetes.

   An estimated 135 million people worldwide, and 16 million Americans, have
diabetes. Most have the type-II or non-insulin dependent form, in which the body
does not respond properly to insulin and cannot manage blood fat and sugar
levels.

   The report said 200,000 Americans die every year from diabetes and that the
disease costs $ 100 billion in medical care and other expenses every year. It
can cause blindness, limb loss and other problems.

   "In both human and economic terms, diabetes has become a national public
health crisis," said Rep. George Nethercutt, R-Wash., who heads the
congressional diabetes caucus. "Over the last two decades, funding for diabetes
has not kept up with the scientific opportunities or public needs."

   The caucus asked for $ 827 million out of next year's budget, an increase of
$ 385 million, to be spent on National Institutes of Health research.

   Type-I or "juvenile" diabetes is an autoimmune disease, caused when the body
mistakenly destroys the beta cells that produce insulin. People with type-I
diabetes must take insulin daily to survive.

   Researchers are trying to figure out ways to transplant new cells into
patients whose insulin-producing cells were destroyed. The body's immune system
often attacks these transplants, although Dr. Christopher Newgard, a member of
the group and professor of internal medicine at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, said recent research suggests there may
be ways to prevent this attack.

   Newgard said scientists need to better understand why the beta or islet cells
are targeted.

   As for tissue transplants, there is the question of supply. Perhaps animal
cells can be genetically engineered, but again, fundamental research is needed,
the report said.

   Another possible source is stem cells - a kind of nursery cell that can
develop into any kind of cell.

   Scientists hope to find ways to take stem cells from patients and grow them
into tissue for transplant back into the body - tissue that would not be
rejected by the immune system because it is the body's own.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999


                             1609 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   February 24, 1999, Wednesday ,City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: More efficient ways to take your medicine;
MIT spurs technology to deliver drugs over period of time;
Emerging Business

BYLINE: By Lori Valigra, Globe Correspondent

BODY:

   Imagine walking into a drugstore and ordering all of your prescriptions in a
single pill. That pill, or microchip, could include your heart medicine,
cholesterol-lowering drug, aspirin, and vitamins - all in precise doses to be
delivered at specific times over a period of days, weeks, months, or even years.

    Such futuristic technology to develop drug cocktails and the systems by
which to deliver them already exist, much of it the result of Massachusetts
Institute of Technology research that is finding its way into companies around
the corner and around the country.

    Robert Langer, professor of chemical and biomedical engineering at MIT, is
spearheading much of the development of new polymers and drug-delivery systems -
implantable wafers, osmotic-pump pills, microchips, aerosols, and low-frequency
ultrasound devices - all aiming to make drug doses more effective, safer, and
easier to take.

    "What's intriguing is the potential of truly long-term dosing," said Terry
McGuire, a general partner with Polaris Venture Partners LLC of Waltham. "The
applications and potential are enormous. It's going to redefine the way we
deliver drugs."

    Polaris, a $270 million venture fund, will put $1.5 million into a new
company currently being formed in Cambridge to commercialize MIT-developed
microchip technology. The microchip, which could be swallowed or implanted, and
activated by remote control, holds a drug or drugs in tiny wells throughout its
surface. The drugs can be released by an electrical impulse or a biochemical
interaction.

    The company, tentatively called Microchip Inc. (Micro Chemically Integrated
Products), is the result of a growing type of collaboration between academia,
financiers, and industry. Polaris will found the company along with Langer and
two other codevelopers of the microchip: Michael Cima, an MIT professor of
ceramic processing; and John Santini Jr., an MIT graduate student in chemical
engineering.

    Santini will become the first employee of the company after completing his
doctorate in June.

    It's rare for a venture capital firm to help found a company, said McGuire.
Instead, venture capitalists usually fund start-ups and other existing
companies.

    "The partnership with Langer and MIT made for a very supportive
environment," he said.

    Langer's influence extends far beyond the new company. Langer, who has 353
patents issued or pending, figures 70 former students and colleagues from his
MIT laboratory are now at other universities researching drug-delivery and
related technologies. And, he figures, 70 to 80 of his former students are at
pharmaceutical, biotech, or medical device companies.

    Among them is David Edwards, a chemical engineer who is founder and
president of Advanced Inhalation Research Inc. of Cambridge, which also got its
initial financing from Polaris Venture Partners.

    His company is developing a magic marker-size mouth inhaler for estrogen,
allergy, and other medications based on technology conceived by Edwards and
codeveloped with MIT and Pennsylvania State University.

    Edwards said the new inhaler can get 70 percent or more of an asthma drug
dose into a patient's lungs vs. about 10 percent with today's inhalers. The rest
typically stays in the person's mouth. The company's first product is several
years away.

    Privately held Advanced Inhalation Research started in 1997. It received $2
million in four rounds of financing from Polaris Venture Partners, and has an
undisclosed amount of additional financing from research funding and equity from
three corporate partners.

    Advanced Inhalation Research was acquired Feb. 1 by publicly held Alkermes
Inc. of Cambridge, which now has six drug-delivery technologies in its stable.
The stock deal was for 3.68 million shares of Alkermes stock, worth about $90
million based on a 30-day average share price, according to BancBoston Robertson
Stephens.

    Another Cambridge company using MIT technology is Sontra Medical Inc., which
is building low-frequency ultrasound devices to get medicines through the skin
more easily and to monitor glucose levels for diabetics. Privately held Sontra,
which started in the second quarter of last year, received $7 million from three
companies: Essex Woodlands Health Ventures, Hambrecht & Quist Health Technology
Investor's Venture Fund, and Vanguard Venture Partners.

    "We're trying to turn this concept into a handheld device for doctors and
patients," said Shawn Stovall, general manager of Sontra. He added that the
first commercial product is at least two years away.

    These local firms are among the dozens of emerging companies nationwide
eyeing a drug-delivery market that topped $14 billion in sales in 1998,
according to estimates by Langer and industry analysts.

    "New drug-delivery systems moved quickly from no market 20 years ago to $14
billion now in the United States alone," Langer said. "And there's still so much
that needs to be done. For example, delivery of gene therapy." Langer and his
colleagues are developing concepts, but it takes several million dollars for
companies to turn them into products, he said.

    Large pharmaceutical companies are becoming ready investors in and partners
with new drug-delivery ventures. One reason: The start-ups take on the R&D risk.
The start-ups also generally apply their technology to reformulate drugs going
off-patent after 17 years, thus extending the patent life of some
multimillion-dollar drugs, with better versions expected to be priced the same
or less. And the start-ups have promising technology for future drugs that might
need new drug-delivery systems to get into the right area of the body.

    "New drug-delivery technologies create a lot of value for pharmaceutical
companies," said Jay Silverman, pharmaceutical industry analyst for BancBoston
Robertson Stephens. "The risks are low and the rewards are high."

    Early examples of these new ways to administer drugs include patches such as
Nicoderm for smoking cessation, implants such as Norplant for birth control, and
time-release cold tablets and vitamins. The emerging delivery methods promise
better controlled release of drugs, safer dispersion of toxic chemotherapies,
and organ-specific treatments.

    Langer said the new drug-delivery systems reduce side effects because they
put out steadier doses. Current drugs, such as pills that must be taken every
four hours, have peaks and valleys of effectiveness.

    Cima added that the dosage in any pill currently purchased at a pharmacy may
vary by about 15 percent of the labeled content, because conventional
manufacturing technologies are not as precise as the emerging ones. Therics
Inc., a Princeton, N.J. company that licensed the three-dimensional printing
technology devised at MIT, is now making test pills within 1 percent of the
labeled dosage, Cima said.

    Three-dimensional printing technology prints one or more drugs in layers
into a pill or implant. Precise drug doses can be delivered at variable
intervals.

    Cima, who codeveloped three-dimensional printing technology, predicted that
vaccine tablets made using the technology could have a big impact in Third World
countries, where it is hard to get a nurse to all areas to administer
injections.

    "I believe we can make printed tablets cost-competitive against current
pressed tablets," Cima said. He added that Therics is getting close to the
one-cent-per-tablet cost that would make printed pills competitive with today's
pressed tablets.

    Even in developed countries, it is sometimes hard to get patients to take
their medications regularly. That's particularly true of people with chronic
diseases and the elderly, who might forget to take a dose. A controlled-dose
drug that needs to be taken less often is more convenient and gives the person a
better quality of life.

    Langer said the companies turning the new drug-delivery technologies into
products can have a great impact on people's lives. So, too, can the
researchers. Langer recalled a ceremony last year during which he received the
$500,000 Lemelson-MIT award, a prestigious prize for inventing and engineering
that is akin to the Nobel Prize. One man who attended the event to meet Langer
was George Ferraiuolo of Hagerstown, Md., a 34-year-old who had a brain tumor
removed and a wafer containing chemotherapy implanted in his brain.

    "He thanked me for everything I had done," said Langer. "That is great
satisfaction. I write a chemical structure on a blackboard, and years later see
it as a drug that is saving someone's life."

    For Cima, the process has been more personal. He wanted to see
three-dimensional printing technology commercialized so his grandmother, who had
to take a handful of pills each day, could use it.

    "Grandma died two years ago," Cima said. "But I know I'll be taking these
tablets someday."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/JOHN BLANDING/David Edwards, founder and
president of Advanced Inhalation Research Inc. of Cambridge, holds an inhaler
his company makes for the delivery of medications.
2. GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/SUZANNE KREITER/The Massachusetts Institute of Technology's
John Santini Jr. (left), Michael Cima (center), and Robert Langer are among the
founders of Microchip Inc., which seeks to commercialize MIT-developed microchip
technology.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999


                             1610 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1999 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          February 24, 1999 Wednesday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 2193 words

HEADLINE: The roots of silence;
Promising gene therapy holds hope for hearing impaired

BYLINE: Cheryl Clark, STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   A woman sings.

   A truck rumbles.

   A child laughs. And quickly come the vibrations, forcing an undulating
pressure down a kind of sonic chamber. They bounce against a tightly stretched
drum, reverberate across a trio of bones, then tumble down a membranous
labyrinth, the cochlea, that coils like a snail. Inside, they cross thousands of
sound receptors -- called "hair cells" because each one sprouts a clump of 60 to
100 eyelashlike antennae or "stereocilia" -- that awaken in response to each
vibration. Extremely fast and responsive, the stereocilia sway, recoil and
quiver, like underwater reeds perturbed by a surge of ocean current.

   Their movements create a flow of energy through the hair cells below.

   The energy is converted to acoustic messages and passed on to auditory
neurons and the temporal lobe, the hearing center of the brain. This is the way
it's supposed to work when people hear. But for about 30 million Americans, this
elaborate chain reaction goes awry, causing impaired hearing or deafness.

   Scientists now believe the culprit most often lies deep inside that
snail-shaped labyrinth, within this 1-inch-long bed of hair cells that somehow
fails to develop or becomes damaged with time. In these cases, stereocilia don't
grow tall and straight but appear mowed down as if they had been given a crew
cut.

   Hair cells either never materialize or disintegrate. As scientists narrow
down the mechanical reasons for deafness, they are also quickly zeroing in on
some genetic causes that underlie the mechanical defects.

   In less than two years, scientists have mapped more than 40 genes associated
with human deafness, and 10 of these have been cloned. About one in 1,000
infants is born deaf in the United States, and genetic mutations are believed
responsible for about half.

   Researchers say that genes also may be at the root of a large amount of
premature hearing loss, and they have identified 20 suspect genes involved in
those disorders. "There has been tremendous progress in research on the genetic
basis of deafness," Karen P. Steel of the British Medical Research Council
Institute of Hearing Research, wrote in an editorial in The New England Journal
of Medicine. Of mice and men Much of that progress has been the result of two
parallel research tracks: One is concentrated in animal models, primarily
genetically bred mice that are deaf.

   The other is in families of humans with high frequencies of inherited
deafness or abnormal hearing loss. In humans, research has focused on several
families in Israel, Costa Rica, India, Pakistan, Lebanon, Syria, Bali, Tunisia
and the United States who have severe to profound hearing impairment or deafness
either at birth, in early childhood or as aging adults. Other research is
looking at genes that cause deafness in certain breeds of mice.

   Although the genomes of humans and rodents parted millions of years ago,
segments of their chromosomes remain remarkably the same. Thomas Friedman, chief
of the Molecular Genetics laboratory at the National Institute on Deafness and
Other Communication Disorders (NIDOCD), has studied the families in northern
Bali, Indonesia. In 1992, a college friend and research colleague who was
teaching in Bali remarked about the people in a nearby village called Bengkala
where deafness was reportedly quite common. In fact, deafness was so common
through the generations that the communityhad developed a unique sign language
that many of the 2,200 people knew and used, in addition to their spoken tongue.
Another researcher, anthropologist John Hinnant, who spent two years in
Bengkala, found that far from being segregated as they are in the United States,
deaf people in Bengkala are well integrated into farming and religious rituals,
a pattern that has clearly been passed on through many generations.

   That was a strong clue that deafness among the people of Bengkala was in all
likelihood genetically based, Friedman said. The next year, Friedman and
colleagues collected and analyzed blood from 150 hearing and deaf residents of
Bengkala and, through genetic mapping techniques, found a gene called DFNB3 on
chromosome 17 that appeared to be changed in the deaf Bengkala residents.
Friedman and colleagues in 1995 found that the deafness due to mutations in the
DFNB3 gene looked a lot like deafness found in shaker-2 mice.

   These mice are descendants of a line that is totally deaf and suffers balance
problems, apparently the result of an accidental genetic mutation caused by an
X-ray in a laboratory in 1928. As it turns out, normal stretches on human
chromosome 17 and portions of mouse chromosome 11 are remarkably similar. At
about the same time, researchers at the University of Michigan decided to
experiment with the shaker-2 mouse.

   The scientists decided to see if they could make a shaker-2 mouse that was
not deaf by injecting tiny bits of normal sections of DNA from mouse chromosome
11 into fertilized mouse eggs. It worked.

   In the first 50 tries, they produced one mouse, Sebastian, the first shaker-2
mouse that could hear. Friedman and Camper authored two related papers on the
subject published last May in the journal Science. The researchers narrowed down
the difference between the normal DNA and the shaker-2 DNA to only one base pair
out of more than 30,000 base pairs in the gene. And, they discovered the changes
appear in a section of the DNA that may regulate a molecular motor protein
called myosin. Myosin is responsible for contraction and elasticity in mammalian
muscles. But researchers suspect that this unconventional myosin mutation may be
involved in non-muscle cells, and may affect a protein called actin, an
ingredient in stereocilia that may help these antennae pivot in response to
vibration. Keeping the shaker-2 mice findings in mind, Friedman and two other
scientists went back to the Bengkala DNA samples extracted from human blood.

   Looking in the same area, they quickly found the mutation of the myosin gene
that was responsible for deafness in the Bengkala families. Friedman and Sally
Camper, associate professor of human genetics at the University of Michigan,
published the research in Science. Forms of deafness Deafness comes in an
estimated 400 forms and may involve as many as 200 genetic mutations.

   Other groups of researchers are studying a variety of populations to see if
they can find genetic similarities between mouse and human deafness. At UCSD and
the Veteran's Administration Medical Center in La Jolla, Linda Erkman, Allen
Ryan and Dr. Michael Rosenfeld two years ago created a mouse that lacks a gene
known as Brn-3.1. Without it, mouse hair cells fail to develop at all, making
the mice deaf. Now, Ryan and his colleagues are trying to narrow down the
precise function of this gene.

   They think it may be involved in switching on other genes that tell a cell to
become a hair cell. "What is the genetic program that takes a simple cell that
could go into several different directions, and tells it to become a hair cell?

   That's what we're trying to find out," Ryan said. Last March, Friedman, Karen
Avrahim in Israel and others took results of Ryan's work one step further after
finding similarities between Brn-3.1 and another gene in humans called DFNA15, a
mutation they found in a large Israeli family with another inherited form of
deafness. As it turns out, both DFNA15 and Brn-3.1 carry instructions for the
same protein, a compound called a transcription factor that is known to regulate
the expression of other genes. Ryan also is trying to protect damage to hair
cells that sometimes results from treatment with certain antibiotics that are
commonly used in Mexico, China and some developing nations, but rarely used
here. He and colleagues have found a gene from a bacteria that appears resistant
to assault from that same antibiotic. The next step is to see if they can insert
that bacteria into hair cells, and get the same protective effect when they
subsequently challenge those cells with harmful antibiotics. The search is also
on for genes that not only cause babies to be born deaf, but also those that
play a role in premature hearing loss, either in older children or young adults.
Last fall, NIDOCD scientists, including Friedman, published their discovery of a
gene mutation that is a major cause of inherited deafness among Ashkenazi Jews,
and gleaned some hints that the mutation might also be responsible for early
loss of hearing in adults. The researchers were quick to point out that deafness
is not more common in this population.

   But Ashkenazi Jews who are deaf are more likely to have this particular
mutation than people of other ethnic backgrounds who also are deaf.

   The mutated gene, GJB2, directs cells to make connexin 26, a molecule found
in cells immediately surrounding the hair cells and inside the cochlea.

   What impact this has on the auditory system is unclear, but researchers
speculated that the mutation may interfere with the cell-to-cell communication
process. That could become a significant finding.

   Some researchers such as Bronya Keats, director of the Center for Molecular
and Human Genetics at Louisiana State University Medical Center in New Orleans,
believe that mutations will turn out to play an increasingly important role in
the cause of progressive loss of hearing. Keats echoed the sentiment expressed
by others that the human genome project, the effort to sequence the entire human
genome, "has been enormously helpful as far as studying the genetics of
deafness, providing us with a lot more markers to use to find these genes." An
estimated 14 percent of the U.S. population between the ages of 45 and 64 are
clinically deaf, and by age 65, the figure increases to 30 percent. At age 65,
the average person has lost one-third of his or her hair cells. Of course, not
all hearing loss is due to damaged or dysfunctional hair cells and stereocilia.

   Accidents or explosions can damage the structure of the ear, and certain
diseases can harm parts of the middle ear. But when hearing declines in an older
person, it is often the result of noise, the constant wear and tear on cilia
from years of vibrations, from loud rock music to jackhammering in the street.
"Our ears are being assaulted every day by the environment," Friedman said.
"It's going to be more fashionable in the future to wear ear protection." But
regarding everyday noise, genetics comes into play.

   Physicians who treat hearing loss are frequently vexed by the fact that some
people, exposed to the same explosions or workplace noise, don't lose their
hearing, while others of the same age may need a hearing aid. Perhaps a mutation
somewhere along the sequences of DNA that turn vibrations into sound makes some
people more susceptible to damage from noise. Age-related hearing loss doesn't
always mean losing the ability to hear all sound.

   Instead, speech of others sometimes can seem mumbled or slurred.
Conversations can become harder to understand over background noise. Gene
therapy Scientists say they are increasingly optimistic about the potential for
gene therapy, a way of inserting or substituting normal functional genes for
damaged or malfunctioning ones.

   Within the next five years, many scientists said they expect to find
treatments that might even protect hair cells in people born with a genetic
predisposition to premature hearing loss.

   They may be able to apply gene therapy to a fetus found to carry a deafness
gene. At the University of California San Francisco, genetic researcher Anil
Lalwani is grappling with how to construct a delivery system that can bring
normal genes into the inner ear of those adults or fetuses with deafness
mutations. The trick is getting the cells delivered in such a way that they will
go to their intended targets.

   So far, his work has been concentrated in guinea pigs, using a virus as a
carrier.

   One of Lalwani's upcoming papers deals with his use of liposomes, a mixture
of lipids and proteins.

   "I'm excited because this is one area where our research may realize great
benefits," he said. Lalwani said the cochlea is a wonderful candidate for gene
therapy because, unlike many other organs, it is relatively isolated, and
substances can be introduced there without affecting other parts of the body.
There also is optimism about funding.

   The NIDOCD in Rockville, the research arm of the federal government, is the
National Institutes of Health's newest division, created 10 years ago, and
spends about $9 million a year, much of it on the genetics of the ear. "We
expect this number will increase with the wonderful opportunities of gene
discovery afforded by the development of mouse models for hereditary hearing
impairment and the progress toward determining the sequence of the human
genome," said James Battey, NIDOCD director. But while the opportunities are
wonderful, the tasks are monumental, said Ryan, Friedman and Keats. Finding all
these genes is great, said Friedman.

   "But that hasn't told us what they do.

   It just tells us how they're expressed in the hair cells.

   We still don't know what's moving around the hair cells, and we don't know
what their function is.

   That's going to be years and years of a lot of work."

GRAPHIC: 1 ILLUSTRATION; 2 GRAPHICS; CAPTIONS: 2. How the ear works (E-5) 3.
Deafness: the difference (E-5); PHOTOBY: 1. LAURIE HARKER / Union-Tribune 2,3.
PAUL HORN / Union-Tribune | SOURCE: Union-Tribune Research

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1611 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                    February 23, 1999, Tuesday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Possible cancer inhibitor passes a test;
Hopes raised for periodic injections

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

   BETHESDA, Md. - Scientists said yesterday that they had sharply slowed cancer
growth in mice by injecting them with genes that create endostatin, the protein
used by a Children's Hospital researcher to eliminate tumors in mice.

    The experiment raises the possibility that cancer patients might receive
weekly injections of endostatin, which is known as an angiogenesis inhibitor.
The injections would instruct the patient's cells to make endostatin, and to
secrete it into the bloodstream.

    If the method proves viable in future human tests, it might be a way to get
around the difficulties faced by company scientists who are trying to make
endostatin synthetically, in drug form.

    "The beauty of this approach is that it's so clean," said Wang Min, a senior
scientist at Gene Medicine Inc., a Houston biotech company. "You just put the
endostatin gene in, and the body makes the pure protein - no contamination," he
said.

    The gene, the DNA blueprint for endostatin, was injected into the muscles of
mice that had received transplants a week previously of lung or kidney cancer
cells. Once a week for two weeks, the mice got the endostatin injections. Min
said that the tumors in the treated mice grew much more slowly than in untreated
mice, so that their tumors were 60 to 70 percent smaller, and they had six times
fewer metastases, cancer that spread from the primary tumor.

    The effect on the tumors was not nearly as dramatic as that obtained by Dr.
Judah Folkman and his colleagues at Children's Hospital in Boston, where mice
given endostatin protein have had tumors shrink to invisibility. However, Dr.
James Pluda, a senior investigator with the National Cancer Institute, said that
the gene therapy technique might be used in combination with other anti-cancer
drugs to control tumors so that patients could live a long and relatively normal
life.

    Other scientists have used gene therapy to put endostatin genes into
animals' bodies to combat tumors. But in those previous experiments, the
endostatin DNA was carried into the animals' cells with a crippled virus. In
Min's research, the endostatin gene was spliced into a simple DNA ring, which is
less likely to cause adverse reactions, he said. And he said the DNA carriers
are simple and cheap to make.

    Scientists from academic laboratories, biotechnology companies and large
pharmaceutical corporations are attending the two-day meeting sponsored by the
Institute of International Research, which puts on a variety of scientific
conferences.

    Endostatin is only one of dozens of compounds that have been found to
inhibit angiogenesis - the growth of new blood vessels in the body that a tumor
needs to grow and survive. Blocking angiogenesis can slow or halt the growth of
tumors, or - as in Folkman's experiments - even cause them to shrink away.
Endostatin and another angiogenesis inhibitor discovered in Folkman's lab,
angiostatin, are in the medical spotlight as the National Cancer Institute and
the biotech company EntreMed Inc. are working to move those drugs into their
first human tests, perhaps later this year.

    EntreMed scientists are scheduled to report on recent progress in making
large quantities of angiostatin and endostatin at today's sessions of the
conference.

    Last week, in what stock market investors saw as a setback for the field,
the pharmaceutical giant Bristol Myers Squibb said it was halting work on the
development of angiostatin under a license from Entremed because the protein was
proving too difficult to make in large quantities that were consistently
effective. Scientists here downplayed this setback because there are many other
angiogenesis inhibitors.

    A number of angiogenesis inhibitors that predate the discovery of
angiostatin and endostatin are in early stages of tests in human cancer
patients, but little information about the results has been released by the
companies carrying them out. Reports are likely to be aired this spring.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999


                             1612 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                February 23, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy Passes Important Test, in Monkeys

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

BODY:

   A colony of 54 rhesus monkeys at the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia was peacefully watching an episode of the second "Star Trek" series
one recent afternoon when an alien-looking squad of higher primates, decked out
in masks and white disposable boiler suits and ridiculous bootees, marched into
their quarters.

   The invaders politely avoided staring any monkey in the face, a perilous faux
pas in simian society, but there was no disguising their intent: to make one of
the residents surrender a sample of her blood.

    The monkeys are press-ganged pioneers in a bold medical frontier, the
treatment of disease by reprogramming the body's genetic instructions. Gene
therapy, as it is hopefully known, has long been a field of high promise and low
fulfillment. The promise is evident: all diseases, even infections, have a
genetic component, and the best possible treatment in many cases would be to
repair the genetic defect that permits the disease.

   But inserting genes into human cells in full working order has proved to be
exasperatingly difficult. More than 230 clinical trials of genetic engineering
techniques are now in progress, but most are at a preliminary stage and none has
yet led to an approved therapy. Along with a batch of recent experiments at
other universities, the Penn monkeys represent one of the few rays of hope in a
long series of setbacks. Not only do six of them now carry a newly inserted gene
that makes a therapeutic protein, but the gene can be switched on at will simply
by giving the monkey a pill.

   The monkeys belong to the university's Institute for Human Gene Therapy,
directed by a youthful-looking veteran of the gene therapy wars, James M.
Wilson. Dr. Wilson has corralled the resources to pursue a broad-based strategy.
Not for him the gamble of going after a single disease, with heavy odds of
failure. He is pursuing a wide range of maladies with a variety of methods. "I
will allow nothing technical to get in our way," he says firmly in a
late-evening conversation in his office.

   Mouse rooms and monkey colonies, where gene insertion techniques must be
tested before being tried in patients, do not come cheap. Dr. Wilson's virus
manufacturing center cost $5 million to build. Merely walking into it costs $20
-- the price of the disposable clothes worn to prevent people from contaminating
the growing viruses.

   Viruses are both the hope and despair of genetic engineers. Viruses can focus
in on specific kinds of cells, penetrate their membranes and insert their genes
in working order into the cell's DNA. Most approaches to gene therapy use
viruses as the vehicle to convey genes to target cells. The virus's harmful
genes are stripped out and a therapeutic gene inserted in their place.

   In the mid-1980's, when Dr. Wilson joined the field, a disabled mouse virus
was everyone's favorite candidate. But the virus infected only cells that were
dividing. The next candidate was adenovirus, a cause of the common cold.
Adenovirus is a fine vehicle; it inserts new genes into many kinds of human
cell, and the genes produce protein. But only for eight weeks or so. That is how
long it takes for the body's immune system to identify and root out every Trojan
horse cell where an adenovirus, even a disabled one, is lurking.

   In 1993, Dr. Wilson left the University of Michigan and a Howard Hughes
fellowship -- a munificent but nontransferable kind of research grant -- to move
to Penn. The dean of its medical school, Dr. William N. Kelley, made it a
crusade to get gene therapy off the ground and persuaded Dr. Wilson, his former
Ph.D. student, to head the new institute.

   Two years later the whole community of genetic engineers was plunged into a
crisis of confidence.  The National Institutes of Health, finding that $200
million, some 2 percent of its budget, was going into gene therapy research,
commissioned a critical review of the field. The review's authors chided gene
therapists for promising too much and delivering too little.

   The many exaggerated claims for gene therapy "threaten confidence in the
integrity of the field," the institutes' report said.

   A shakeout followed, but Dr. Wilson escaped damage. "Personally it helped us,
because it eliminated a lot of the hacks," he said. "So we contrived to grow
after that." His institute, the largest of its kind, has a staff of 187 people
and an annual budget of $25 million, half of which comes from the National
Institutes of Health and the rest from industry and foundations.

   "It's a very impressive operation and he has been combining a lot of basic
science with applications," said Dr. Theodore Friedman, a gene therapy expert at
the University of California, San Diego.

   Dr. Wilson is now working with a new gene delivery system, one based on a
small virus called adeno-associated virus. It has only two genes, both of which
can be removed, leaving just its head and tail as a shell to carry therapeutic
genes into target cells. The little virus does not greatly provoke the body's
immune system.

   Dr. Wilson has also incorporated an important device that genetic engineers
had neglected, a switch for regulating the inserted genes. Cells usually
activate genes by having an agent that serves as a switch bind to a stretch of
DNA called a promoter region, which lies upstream of a target gene. Once the
switch is in place, the gene's program is executed.

   Working with Ariad Pharmaceuticals of Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Wilson has
inserted genes for a two-part on-switch into adeno-associated virus. The two
parts assemble into a working switch only in the presence of the drug rapamycin.
This means a gene can be inserted but will work only when a rapamycin pill is
taken.

   Dr. Wilson reported last month that the system had proved successful in mice
and in rhesus monkeys.  He used the gene for a powerful hormone known as
erythropoietin, which spurs the bone marrow to churn out more red blood cells.
Adeno-associated viruses carrying the rhesus version of the erythropoietin gene
and the new switch system were injected into the animals' muscle cells. The gene
was silent until the monkeys were given a rapamycin pill.

   In the treated monkeys, the gene remains active for several days, requiring
the red blood cell count to be checked regularly. If the red cell count gets too
high, the monkeys are bled to reduce the risk of stroke.

   People with low blood counts, like dialysis patients, have regular injections
of erythropoietin itself. A better therapy, if feasible, might be to insert the
erythropoeitin gene in their muscle cells, and flick it on every month or so
with a rapamycin pill.

   The erythropoietin project is just one of many that Dr. Wilson and his
colleagues are pursuing. "We are pursuing a blitz of activity across the board
on a range of diseases," he says. He has projects for delivering corrective
genes to the liver, the eye and the lung as well as to muscle cells.

   A second group of projects is focused on cancers, including those of the
skin, lung and brain. The cancer projects still rely on adenovirus as the
delivery vehicle. Because the goal is to insert genes that will kill the
cancerous cells, the vehicle's limited period of effectiveness is not an issue.
Dr. Wilson is switching all his genetic repair projects from adenovirus to the
more promising adeno-associated virus. One of these projects, designed by his
colleague Dr. Jean Bennett, is an attack on a form of retinitis pigmentosa. The
disease, a degeneration of retinal cells, is caused by an inherited defect in
one of the enzymes that helps convert light into a nervous signal.

   The defect, at present incurable, affects mice and certain breeds of dogs,
like Irish setters, as well as people. Dr. Bennett has prepared viral vehicles
that carry a correct version of the gene for the dysfunctional enzyme. The virus
can be injected into the fluid-filled compartment behind the retina, where it
will infect retinal cells.

   Having proved the concept in mice, she then tried it in dogs and found that
the treatment restored a dog's sight.

   "It was so exciting to see the dog follow my fingers with one eye, while the
other eye was still searching," she said. One eye had been left untreated, to
serve as a comparison for the treated eye. The improvement lasted for only seven
weeks or so because the virus vehicle was the short-lived adenovirus.

   Dr. Bennett is now repeating the experiment with adeno-associated virus. If
that works, she said, she will seek approval to try the method in patients.

   Dr. Wilson and his team face numerous pressures. "We get 50 calls a week from
parents of children with awful diseases," said Dr. Nelson A. Wivel, deputy
director of the institute. The money must be kept flowing with constant grant
applications. Even when a genetic engineering technique should prove successful,
there are many scientific and regulatory problems that remain unresolved.

   One is that a virus and its cargo of improving genes might inadvertently get
into the patient's eggs or sperm. The virus could insert itself in the middle of
a gene, disrupting the gene's function and causing an inherited defect. Or it
could insert correctly, remedying a genetic disease in the patient's
descendants. Though that might not seem like a problem, making inheritable
changes in the human genome is a bridge that no one is yet ready to cross.

   Another awkward problem is the extreme xenophobia of the body's immune
system, which instinctively assails any substance that it did not grow up with.
Gene therapy aims to provide the correct genes to people who inherit some
genetic defect, but the normal protein produced by the correct gene may
nevertheless be treated as foreign by the patient's immune system, which has
never seen the normal protein before.

   The Food and Drug Administration has a staff of some 20 people who review
applications to try genetic engineering techniques on patients. The agency has
liberally allowed first-phase clinical trials but in giving final approval for a
therapy may require more assurance on a range of issues. One is whether the
virus vehicles, especially a disabled form of the AIDS virus, which some gene
therapists favor, might not find occasion to reacquire their missing genes.
"Here is where we are beginning to get into difficult areas," said Dr. Philip D.
Noguchi, head of the agency's gene therapy unit.

   A different danger on the gene therapists' horizons is that of being
overtaken by the new technology of stem cells, the multi-purpose cells from
which each organ is thought to repair itself. Inserting corrective genes into
these cells, once they can be identified, could prove more effective than
messing with viruses and other provocations to the immune system. But stem cell
technology is in its infancy, and Dr. Wilson says he is not concerned that it
will put him out of business. "It doesn't worry me at all," he said, noting that
part of an organ must be destroyed to make room for any new tissue derived from
stem cells.

   Back in the monkey colony, a female rhesus, known only by a number, is deftly
removed from her cage and placed in an open box. The edges of a permanent collar
she wears slip neatly into grooves in the box, keeping her immobile. However
human the monkeys may seem, they are wild animals and require sophisticated
handling.

   Dr. Michael A. Schnell, the supervisor of the monkey center, feeds her from a
child's pack of Kellogg's Fruit Loops while his colleague Ernest Glover
scratches her back in the grooming motions that are simian peace gestures. After
several minutes, when she seems sufficiently calm, Mr. Glover deftly inserts a
needle into a tiny leg vein to remove blood. The monkey soon starts to moan,
fretful to escape from the constraining box. She is returned to her cage, just
in time for the afternoon round of orange segments.

   The whole elaborate procedure will result in a single point on a graph
recording the erythropoietin gene's state of activity. Evolution's programming
took 3.5 billion years to develop; learning to fix the bugs in it is not going
to happen overnight.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. James M. Wilson, who directs the University of
Pennsylvania's Institute for Human Gene Therapy in Philadelphia, on Penn's
campus. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)

Chart: "Turning an Intruder Into an Instructor"
Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania have succeeded in using genetic
information implanted in a virus to alter the function of blood-making cells in
monkeys. The method may one day help to treat illnesses in which red blood cells
are deficient.

The EPO Gene
Specific genes of an invasive virus are removed andreplaced by a gene known as
the erythropoietin or EPO gene, which stimulates production of red blood cells.

The Activating Agent
The EPO gene is activated by a two-part switch. Genes that make the two halves
of the switch are inserted in a second virus.

Both viruses are injected into the muscle cells of a rhesus monkey. Unlike other
cells, the long fibrous muscle cells have many nuclei, giving more targets for
the viruses.

The viruses penetrate the cell's nuclei, inserting their altered genes into the
cell's DNA.

Inside the nucleus, the two halves of the on-off switch are released into the
cell.

These two proteins are then linked by a molecule, rapamycin, which is given as a
pill. The resulting combination is capable of activating theEPO gene.

Once activated, the gene produces proteins that cause bone marrow to produce
more red blood cells.

(Juan Velasco/The New York Times)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999


                             1613 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.

                   February 23, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: Future good health will come to those who listen

BYLINE: Robert Sapolsky

BODY:

   Well, we baby boomers, despite our frequent pretense of saving
the world, are slated to destroy it around 2025. That is when
the vast numbers of us become geriatric and collapse the economy
with the costs of Social Security payments, medical care and those
subsidized nursing home concerts by the Rolling Stones.

   A paper in a January issue of Science, the country's most
prestigious science journal, reviews this problem. Authored by
Herb Pardes, dean of Columbia Medical School, along with some
other major honchos, it argues that the economic meltdown isn't
inevitable, because medical research will generate revolutionary
breakthroughs that will transform both medical care and medical
costs.


   This may occur. After all, a medical economist working in 1500,
if informed of the size of 1999's population, would have predicted
the collapse of our economy because of the costs of leeches and
alchemy consultations for our sick.

   Pardes and colleagues emphasize that there will be technological
breakthroughs (having to do with fiber optics, virtual surgery,
things of that sort) that will make surgery less invasive, meaning
faster healing, lower costs. There will be pharmacological discoveries
so that illnesses requiring surgery today merely will require
less expensive medication in the future. Gene therapy will prevent
many diseases from even occurring. And so on.

   Thus, things won't be that bad, as long as we keep high-tech biomedical
research going.

   I heartily endorse this, given that I do that sort of research
(gene therapy for neurological diseases). Nevertheless, I was
disappointed by one omission in their antidote to doomsday. They
said barely a word about preventive medicine. By this, I don't
mean preventing illness with some science-fiction marvel of, say,
altering the genome of a fetus so as to prevent it from ever getting
a disease.

   I'm talking the down-homey version of preventive medicine -- those
platitudes about eating right, exercising and avoiding vices.
A majority of our Westernized diseases are related to lifestyle,
and a couple of ounces of preventive measures in these realms
would have a staggering impact on our health (and its costs).

   Oh, Lawd, quick, flip to the sports pages before this guy starts
preaching about how we need more research about how bad the things
we eat and do are. Don't worry, I'm not going to. I'm not sure
if a top priority is more research on preventive medicine, since
we already know a lot about that and no one listens anyway. My
point is a top priority in research should be figuring out why
no one listens.

   Issues for researchers

   This is no longer the realm of geek scientists in lab coats. This
is psychology. For a smart species, we have some foolish cognitive
biases, and there is actually a science to the patterning of those
biases. Now that Viagra has eliminated one big problem, here are
some other problems researchers must tackle:

   Why are people so incredibly bad at doing accurate risk assessment?
This is the realm of people being more worried about the potential
health consequences of flesh-eating bacteria or Ebola virus than
they are of driving too fast or eating red meat.

   Why do so many of us stop taking medicine the second we feel better,
often guaranteeing we not only have to do it again but also the
medicine won't work as well next time?

   Why are we so poor at dealing with cause and effect? Rats can
learn to associate bells with shocks, even when the two are separated
in time. Despite being somewhat smarter than the average rat,
we're not that much better at recognizing a causal relationship
between two events separated over a lot of time -- like, say,
smoking and a miserable health outcome decades later. Related
to that, why do we have trouble believing big outcomes are the
end product of lots of small steps?

   Why are humans suckers for anecdotes? Try to get someone to do
something healthy about their lifestyle and, wham, out comes the
story: "But my second cousin has a friend whose uncle did these
same unhealthy things, and he's 89 now and in great shape, so
why should I change my ways?"

   Ronald Reagan ran his presidency on anecdotes; too many people
make their health decisions based on them as well.

   Why are we so good at being in denial about mortality? Teen-agers
flaunt their perceived omnipotence by driving recklessly. By middle
age, we flaunt more sedately, slathering butter on food, but the
underlying denial is the same. Why do people have trouble grasping
statistical relations? "If I smoke, will it actually cause cancer?"
"Well, it significantly increases the likelihood of cancer."
"But it's not certain that it would cause cancer in me?" "No,
but . . ."

   Why? Why? Why?

   Why do people have trouble appreciating distributed causality?
"Imagine two diseases, each of which kills 100 people. In Medical
Breakthrough A, all the cases of one disease are cured. In Breakthrough
B, half the cases of each disease are cured. Which is a better
discovery?" These are absolutely equivalent in terms of the number
of lives saved, but people prefer A -- a sense of the case being
closed on one disease. Yet discoveries in preventive medicine
are typically extremes of option B -- a 1% decrease in the impact
of each of 100 different diseases. That's the sort of medical
advance people often undervalue.

   And, above all, why do we prefer to pay someone to clean up our
messes, rather than expend a tenth of the energy on preventing
them ourselves?

   There are psychologists who study questions like these, and it's
vital that they continue to do so. It's likely that 21st century
technology will transform medical knowledge. While it'll be swell
to have the human genome sequenced (let alone patented), we'd
also better ensure that 21st century psychology transforms the
extent to which people take advantage of medical knowledge.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Jerry Mosemak, USA TODAY(Illustration)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999


                             1614 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                    February 22, 1999, Monday, Home Edition

SECTION: Health; Part S; Page 1; View Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: CAPSULES;
 OBSESSIVE-COMPULSIVES MAY FIND RELIEF FROM UNLIKELY SOURCE

BYLINE: THOMAS H. MAUGH II

BODY:


   For those who have obsessive-compulsive disorder--a disabling mental disorder
characterized by repeated, patterned behavior, such as washing one's hands,
checking that doors are locked and so forth--surgical destruction of a small
part of the brain can provide immense relief.

   As many as 2% of Americans may suffer from the disorder sometime during their
lives. Some cases resolve spontaneously, while others are helped by therapy or
drugs.

   But about 10% continue deteriorating despite such efforts. These patients,
numbering more than 200,000, are potential candidates for psychosurgery.

   Psychosurgery--the destruction of parts of the brain--has a long and
sometimes inglorious history. Frontal lobotomies and orbital undercutting, the
so-called ice pick procedure in which surgeons inserted a thin probe behind the
eye to slice off part of the brain, have become associated with patient abuse,
and are rarely performed now.

   But the development of sophisticated imaging and surgical techniques that
allow extremely precise interventions are beginning to change neurologists'
perception of psychosurgery. Surgery for Parkinson's disease and epilepsy is now
becoming common.

   New results in the March issue of the journal Neurosurgery suggest that
psychosurgery may also be useful in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Dr. Bodo
Lippitz and his colleagues at the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm analyzed
the results of psychosurgery in 35 such patients. They found that the surgery
was successful, providing 50% to 100% improvement on psychiatric tests in 55% of
the patients.

   Examining the results more closely, they found that the surgery was nearly
100% effective when the surgery destroyed a small area of the brain called the
orbitofrontal cortex, which has previously been linked to obsessive behavior.
The surgery was successful whether the area was destroyed by heating with a
special probe or by tightly focused beams of radiation.

   Study Casts Doubt on Kids' Growth Hormone

   Human growth hormone produced by genetic engineering techniques is not
approved by the Food and Drug Administration for stimulating growth in healthy
children, but physicians are free to prescribe it for that use. (Once a drug is
approved for any use, physicians can legally prescribe it for other uses.)

   Many do because some parents are willing to spend as much as $ 25,000 a year
and subject their children to daily injections in hopes of a few extra inches of
growth. An estimated 20% of the 30,000 U.S. children receiving the hormone do so
for such cosmetic height enhancement, but it has never been clear whether such
efforts are beneficial.

   A new study by researchers at Stanford University shows that such treatment
increases height by only 2 inches on average, leading some experts to question
whether the results are worth the trouble.

   Dr. Raymond L. Hintz and his colleagues studied 80 children who received the
drug for as long as 10 years. They reported in Thursday's New England Journal of
Medicine that individual results varied, that 20% of the children received no
benefit at all, and that the average increase over predicted adult heights was
only 2 inches. Hintz and colleagues observed no side effects from the drugs,
however.

   Transplants Successful in 'Bubble Boy' Patients

   Severe combined immunodeficiency disease--the so-called "bubble boy disease,"
named after a Texas youth who lived in a germ-free environment for 12 years
before succumbing to the rare genetic disorder--can be successfully treated with
bone marrow transplants, according to Duke University physicians.

   The patients lack an enzyme that is required for their immune system to
function, and are thus highly susceptible to infectious diseases. Many die
within the first year of life. The defect has been treated, with limited
success, by gene therapy and by expensive treatment with a synthetic form of the
enzyme.

   Dr. Rebecca Buckley and her colleagues at the North Carolina university
reported in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Assn. that 21 of 22
babies with the disorder who received a bone marrow transplant from a family
member by 3 1/2 months of age have survived and are partially or completely
cured.

   The treatment is less effective if given later, but still beneficial. Of 89
patients her team has treated, Buckley said, 72 are alive and faring well.

   Low-Protein Diet Looks to Delay Kidney Dialysis

   Kidney failure patients who adhere to a strict low-protein diet can delay the
need for dialysis by as much as a year, according to a Johns Hopkins University
study in the January Journal of the American Society of Nephrology. The study is
in sharp contrast to current practice, which is to start dialysis earlier and
earlier in patients with terminal kidney failure (meaning death will occur
without dialysis or a transplant).

   The diet consists mostly of fruits and vegetables, and excludes such
high-protein foods as meat, fish, poultry, cheese and milk. Patients are given
supplements containing essential amino acids that the human body cannot produce.

   Dr. Mackenzie Walser and colleagues reported that the death rate among
patients on the diet was 2.5%, compared with the 25% rate among patients on
dialysis.

   Anti-Ulcer Prilosec Is Top Worldwide Seller

   The most popular medication in the world is the anti-ulcer, anti-acid drug
called Prilosec, which had sales of $ 5.14 billion in 1998, making it the first
drug to surpass the $ 5-billion mark. Prilosec was well ahead of the
second-place contender, the anti-cholesterol drug Zocor, which had sales of $
3.95 billion.

   The antidepressant Prozac was third at $ 2.81 billion.

   Altogether, about 25 drugs each surpassed $ 1 billion in sales. The greatly
hyped drug Viagra, however, was well back in the pack, with sales of $ 788
million.

   But Prilosec's days in the lead are probably numbered, analysts say. Astra
AB's patent on the drug expires in 2001, paving the way for other companies to
produce less-expensive generic versions. Other companies are also introducing
new competitors that are likely to steal sales from Prilosec.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999


                             1615 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                    February 22, 1999, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Pioneering heart procedure promising for infants

BYLINE: Kathleen Fackelmann

BODY:

   When a newborn suffers from a serious heart defect, the joy of
delivery can turn to worry. In most cases, doctors can fix the
problem with open-heart surgery.

   But some babies will die before reaching the operating room unless
doctors can keep a special blood vessel from closing off.

   In most cases, this vessel stays open only in the womb. The vessel
lets fetal blood bypass the non-breathing lungs and pick up oxygen
from mom's blood in the placenta. A healthy baby doesn't need
that bypass after birth. But a baby with a heart defect does.
An open vessel can buy time for a baby with a heart defect to
grow big enough to survive a risky operation.

   A Canadian team now reports a novel way of keeping the vessel
open after birth -- at least in lambs. The team kept that special
vessel open by giving lambs in the womb a shot of DNA or genes.
"This is a pioneering strategy," says researcher Marlene Rabinovitch
at the University of Toronto. For the first time, researchers
have directed beneficial genes to the fetal heart, she says.

   One out of 100 babies suffer from such heart defects and would
potentially benefit from the procedure, she says. If additional
studies go well, the team might, within three years, try a similar
approach to rescue human babies with heart defects.

   The idea of using genes to tinker with a fetus in the womb may
sound draconian. "This is going to make people say 'Yuck,' "
says bioethicist David Magnus at the University of Pennsylvania
in Philadelphia. But Magnus says that the method isn't too much
different than injecting a fetus with a potentially lifesaving
drug.

   In fact, doctors currently use a hormone to keep the fetal vessel
open in babies with a heart defect. The hormone, called prostaglandin,
doesn't prevent closure of the vessel but does relax the wall
of the vessel, thus letting some blood through the bypass. Prostaglandin,
which is given not to a fetus but to a newborn, can cause lethal
side effects such as irregular heartbeats.

   Rabinovitch and her colleagues wanted to replace the risky hormone
treatments with a genetically engineered therapy. In the February
issue of the journal Nature Medicine, the team describes
an operation in which they carefully lift lambs from the womb
and give them a shot of DNA to keep the fetal vessel open.

   "That's a major technical advance," says Elizabeth Nabel, a
researcher at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor who wrote
a commentary in the same issue.

   The research may lead to the development of a gene therapy for
the clogged arteries that can lead to heart attacks in adults,
she says.

   The Canadian team members wanted to find out how they could keep
blood flowing through the fetal blood vessel after birth. The
researchers suspected that a protein made by smooth muscle cells
played a starring role in the closure of the vessel. If the researchers
found a way to interfere with that protein, they might keep blood
coursing through the vessel, much the way water flows through
an open plumbing pipe.

   Here's how the team thought closure of the vessel occurred: Hours
after birth, smooth muscle cells inside the wall of the fetal
vessel start to crank out the protein, which is called fibronectin.
The muscle cells lay down a trail of this slippery protein to
help them slide down to the edge of the vessel wall. Once there,
the smooth muscle cells start to divide, forming a plug of tissue
that stops blood from flowing through the fetal vessel.

   To block that process, Rabinovitch and her team decided to rely
on decoy genes that trick the smooth muscle cells into thinking
that they don't need to make fibronectin. As a result, the slippery
trail doesn't form and the muscle cells can't get to the place
where the vessel must be plugged.

   To test their idea, the Canadian team turned to pregnant sheep.
At 90 days gestation, or about the third trimester in human terms,
the researchers put the sheep to sleep with anesthesia. Then the
team made a cut in the uterus -- much the same way a surgeon would
do a Caesarean section on a human.

   The team partly removed each fetus, located the heart, and injected
a solution of decoy genes directly into the fetal blood vessel.

   To make sure the experimental procedure itself didn't interfere
with closure of the vessel, the team included a control group
of fetal sheep that got injections of a sham solution.

   Then the team placed each fetus back in the womb and sewed up
the mother sheep's belly. Less than two months later, the mother
sheep delivered a group of healthy lambs. And the lambs that got
the decoy gene had a fetal blood vessel that remained open. In
contrast, the lambs that had gotten the sham solution had a blood
vessel that closed on schedule.

   The team's work was a "neat technical advance," says Jeffrey
Leiden, a researcher at the University of Chicago. In addition,
the Canadians proved that the slippery protein fibronectin does
indeed play a pivotal role in the closure of this vessel, he says.

   The results raise the possibility of using the same technique
to rescue human infants born with a heart defect. Of course, operating
on a human fetus would be risky, perhaps as risky as injecting
a newborn with prostaglandin.

   To eliminate the need for in-the-womb surgery, Rabinovitch plans
to develop an easier way of getting the decoy genes into the womb.
In the near future, she says, a doctor might give the pregnant
mom a shot of genes.

   Those genes would travel through the mother's bloodstream until
they found a unique protein on fetal blood vessel cells. Once
at the target site, the decoy genes would prevent closure of that
blood vessel, she says.

   Such a method might prove considerably safer than giving newborns
prostaglandin therapy, Rabinovitch says. Doctors must give prostaglandin
to infants continuously until the surgery can be done. Because
prostaglandin therapy is risky, surgeons may rush a baby to surgery
one or two months after birth. At that time, the surgery is more
difficult, because the baby's heart and vessels are so tiny, Rabinovitch
says.

   In contrast, she envisions a single injection of genes given during
the pregnancy. That shot would keep the fetal vessel open until
the baby is big enough to easily survive open-heart surgery. At
the same time the surgeon repairs the defect, he or she would
then tie off the fetal vessel.

   Babies aren't the only ones who might benefit from such genetic
engineering. The research also may help adults who suffer from
blood vessel diseases such as an abnormal thickening of the blood
vessel wall following angioplasty, a procedure in which doctors
ream out clogged arteries.

   About one-third of the people who undergo angioplasty develop
such a thickening, which can lead to a heart attack. Researchers
believe that this thickening may be caused by smooth muscle cells
traveling to the injured vessel wall and overzealously trying
to repair it.

   Rabinovitch thinks that fibronectin may play a role in plugging
these vessels after angioplasty. If so, the decoy genes the Canadian
team used to keep the fetal vessel from closing off may help keep
adult vessels clear as well, she says.

   Other research teams, including ones led by Nabel and Leiden,
are hotly pursuing a gene therapy for adult blood vessel diseases.
Such an advance would help the more than 400,000 Americans who
undergo angioplasty each year in the USA and thousands more who
suffer from blood vessel diseases, including clogged arteries.

   "We might use interventional biology to change the course of
cardiovascular disease," Rabinovitch says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY, Source: Nature Medicine and USA
TODAY research (Illustration)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1999


                             1616 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1999 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            February 21, 1999 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Doctors foresee DNA testing for everyone

BYLINE: Ronald Kotulak, KRT NEWS SERVICE

BODY:

   Science's rapidly growing power to read our genes, the blueprint of life, is
having a momentous and unanticipated impact on medicine, a revolution that is
likely to take most people by surprise. But, that will give physicians the
ability to predict a person's future health, and to head off diseases to which
they may be susceptible.

    ``In the next five to 10 years, everybody who's interested will have the
opportunity to undergo some form of DNA testing to predict their future risk,"
said Dr. Francis Collins, director of National Human Genome Research Institute,
which is spearheading the drive to discover all human genes.

    Still in its infancy, genetic medicine is already having a major impact on
everyday life as doctors test for disease genes such as BRCA 1 for breast cancer
and routinely use genetically engineered drugs such as the blood clot-dissolving
TPA to dramatically reduce the damage from heart attacks and strokes. The trend
is accelerating as new technology and the promise of big profits propel genetic
research and development.

    ``DNA sequencing and usage is coming on with a roar," said geneticist David
Valle of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and an investigator in the Howard
Hughes Medical Institute. "I can't overemphasize how fast that's coming and how
irrevocably that's coming."

    For some, genetic testing already is here. Two years after Alice had both
breasts removed, one because it had cancer and the other for fear it would
develop cancer, the 39-year-old had a genetic test that showed why she, her
mother, grandmother and a sister all had breast cancer.

    They all had inherited the BRCA 1 gene, a mutated form of an important gene
that greatly increases the risk of breast cancer. The gene test supported her
agonizing decision to have the healthy breast removed.

    The test will have even more significance for Alice's daughter, who has a 50
percent chance of inheriting the BRCA 1 gene and can be tested for it when she
reaches 18.

    ``If she does have the gene, then we'll do everything we can to prevent
breast cancer, like early screening, eating a low-fat diet, exercising, avoiding
excessive alcohol and any other thing that looks like it might help," Alice
said.

    Efforts are also under way to screen some members of future generations. In
vitro fertilization, which involves the fertilization of an egg in the
laboratory, is enabling scientists to screen the egg for inherited genetic
diseases before it is implanted in a woman.

    Leading the pack of private companies trolling for genes that can be turned
into profitable drugs are Celera, a partnership of Craig Venter and
Perkin-Elmer, a major maker of gene sequencing equipment, and Incyte
Pharmaceuticals Inc. The two companies plan to spend $500 million on their
search.

    In the face of this competition, leaders of the Human Genome Project, the $3
billion, 15-year federal government effort to find all of the human genes by
2005, recently announced that they plan to finish the job by 2003, two years
early.

    Having the complete sequence of all human genes will usher in a new era of
medicine, which biologists and doctors are defining as BS (before sequence) and
AS (after sequence), said David Ledbetter, who is setting up a new department of
human genetics at the University of Chicago.

    ``The pace of discovery is mind boggling," he said.

    Not all the early promises of genetic research have been fulfilled. For
example, gene therapy, the ability to "lift the hood" of the body's genetic
mechanism and fix disease-causing genes, has been largely ineffective in some
300 human trials. Researchers, however, are continuing their search for better
ways to deliver healthy genes where they are needed, encouraged by recent
success in injecting genes into heart cells to construct new arteries.

    More successful has been the kind of genetic testing that Alice and others
have undergone. In the near future, genetic screening will be able to test for
20 to 30 common ailments.

    ``Ideally you would want to put on the list the things where intervention is
available," said Collins.

    Biotech companies like Affymetrix of Santa Clara, Calif., are making tiny
computerized DNA screening devices, which can be used to quickly identify
genetic mutations that earmark a person for cancer or other diseases. One of
their chips scans for a p53 mutation, which has been linked to about half of all
human cancers.

    Along with such benefits of genetic research have come some now-familiar
social issues. DNA privacy already is the subject of debate among legislators.
DNA is far more informative and indestructible than Social Security numbers.
Each of the 100 trillion cells in the body - bone, hair, blood, muscle, skin -
contains all of the DNA that makes each person unique.

    Some form of federal legislation is needed, experts agree, to outlaw the use
of predictive genetic information in health insurance and employment.

    Eight bills are pending before Congress that would establish federal laws
guaranteeing genetic privacy.

    The most sweeping benefit of knowing our genes is likely to be an
improvement in health that could supersede the tremendous advances made by
vaccines and antibiotics.

    ``Even though we like to think we're fairly sophisticated in medicine, we
don't cure disease. We make it more bearable, or we prolong peoples' lives,"
said Dr. Gary Nabel, a University of Michigan gene therapist.

    ``Genomic medicine is different. It is the fact that you're getting at the
root cause of the disease and you have rational new ways of treating it."

    Although it has been slow to develop, gene therapy is the goal of many
researchers.

    ``We can envision a hospital some day that is strictly a gene-therapy
hospital," said Dr. Clifford Steer of the University of Minnesota, who is
working on gene repair.

    ``You go in, get your blood drawn, have your DNA sequenced, get some healthy
DNA made, have it injected, and you walk out cured of your disease. All in one
day," he recently told scientists at a meeting on new genetic research at the
Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine.

    Everyone has similar genes for making fingernails, hair, blood, brain and
all of the other cells of the human body. They are packaged in 46 chromosomes,
half of which come from the mother and the other half from the father.

    While the genes are similar, they may differ in one or more sub-units,
usually the result of mutations. Most of these differences are harmless, but
some may lead directly to such diseases as cystic fibrosis or Huntington's
disease, or they may act indirectly, increasing a person's susceptibility to
developing cancer, heart disease, diabetes, depression, high blood pressure or
some other disorder.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007


                             1617 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   February 20, 1999, Saturday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: New drug to grow arteries for heart falls short in test

BYLINE: By Richard A. Kno, Globe Staff

BODY:

   The largest trial yet of a hot new concept - using drugs to grow new blood
vessels for hearts with blocked arteries - has produced disappointing results,
but specialists yesterday called the outcome a setback, not a dead end.

    They were reacting to an announcement by the California biotech company
Genentech, which came more than two weeks before scientists are scheduled to
report the study data at a New Orleans meeting of heart researchers.

    Preliminary results, the company said, show that injections of a blood
vessel growth factor into the ailing hearts of human volunteers did not produce
the hoped-for improvement in the patients' ability to exercise on a treadmill
without chest pain.

    "We are disappointed in the preliminary view of the data," Dr. Susan D.
Hellmann, Genentech's chief medical officer, said in a statement.

    Some researchers speculated that the company made the unusual announcement
to dispel any suspicion of insider trading in the two weeks before the
scientific conference or to cushion any fall in the company's stock price that
might result if expectations of a positive result are dashed next month.

    The company did not disclose any details. The lead researcher in the
national trial, Dr. Timothy D. Henry of Minneapolis, said he had not yet seen
the data that prompted Genentech's announcement. Henry is scheduled to present
the results March 9 at a meeting of the American College of Cardiology.

    "I still have a lot of excitement about this approach," Henry said. "The
field is based on sound concepts and very solid data in experimental animals."

    Henry and others said the results may signal that the techniques used were
wrong, but not the concept.

    In the Genentech trial, researchers injected a genetically engineered
protein called Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor, or VEG-F, directly into
patients' coronary arteries. The study enrolled 178 heart patients, divided into
three groups, who got a high dose of VEG-F, a low dose, or injections of an
inert substance called a placebo.

    The heart injections were followed three, six, and nine days later by
intravenous doses, through a vein in the arm.

    The first results are based on exercise tests of the study subjects 60 days
after the initial injections, presumably enough time for new coronary vessels to
grow and nourish areas of the heart muscle that were previously starved for
oxygen.

    Genentech's announcement apparently means there was no significant change in
patients' exercise capacity two months after the VEG-F injections. But several
experts, including Henry, said this does not necessarily mean that it is not
possible to grow new coronary arteries, a concept called coronary angiogenesis.
It may mean, for example, that the VEG-F protein is washed out of the coronary
circulation too rapidly to stimulate or sustain new blood vessel growth.

    "That has always been a concern about the protein, which has a circulating
half-life of less than three minutes," said Dr. Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center in Boston. "The hope had been that enough VEG-F might be soaked
up by the tissues that it would remain there in a biologically active way."

    One interpretation of the study results, Isner said, is that success will
depend on a longer-lasting supply of growth factor. The approach he and some
others favor is gene therapy - injecting the gene for blood vessel growth factor
directly into heart tissue, rather than the protein made by the gene.

    Isner, whose research is funded largely by Vascular Genetics, a company he
helped found, has used the VEG-F gene therapy approach in 24 heart patients. One
did not have clear evidence of new vessel growth, and another was recently
admitted to the hospital for chest pain that required artery-clearing
angioplasty for a blockage that Isner said was not related to the gene therapy.

    The other 22 patients, Isner said, have had striking reductions in their
angina pain, plus evidence of improved blood flow on radionuclide scans of the
region where the VEG-F genes were injected.

    Other researchers remain skeptical of Isner's results, partly because the
St. Elizabeth's group has not compared treated patients with a control group
that received only a placebo.

    "Some have been intensely critical of that, but I'm not," Henry said. "When
you first start using a drug, you have to start somewhere."

    Dr. Michael Simons of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center is scheduled to
report in March the results of two early studies involving 90 patients who
received injections or implants of a different blood protein, fibroblast growth
factor, or FGF.

    Simons said he was not discouraged by Genentech's announcement, even though
he expects some will interpret it as bad news for the coronary angiogenesis
field.

    "This is an exciting field to be in, and I think it has a real potential to
change the face of medicine, more than anything we've seen in the last 30-40
years," Simons said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999


                             1618 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   FEBRUARY 18, 1999, THURSDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: DAILY DATEBOOK; Pg. D10; PERSONALS

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: International Expo Opened 60 Years Ago

BYLINE: Leah Garchik

BODY:
A million spectators were said to have turned out for the parade; dignitaries
gathered from every corner of the Earth (although they knew by then that it was
round); and The Chronicle ran a special section stuffed with ads like the one
from the City of Paris department store for clothing with "Treasure Island
Prints . . . bound to make the wearer the center of any throng." That was 60
years ago, Feb. 18, 1939, and it was opening day of the International
Exposition.

    Hundreds of stories described the glories of modernism as exemplified in the
exhibits and buildings: The Yerba Buena Women's Clubhouse featured four lounges
"aimed at blending with the temperaments of four different types of women"; a
Hall of Sciences exhibit told "how to have a son or daughter as desired, the
methods of sex rejuvenation, causes and relief of sterility, (and) the reason
for masculine women and feminine men." As for the architecture, The Chronicle
was frank: "Treasure Island is a good job, perhaps architecturally not as good a
job as the Acropolis group or Rheims Cathedral, but those required a little more
time."

    Elsewhere in the newspaper, Eleanor Roosevelt attended an agricultural
conference at Cornell University and spoke of the need for the United States to
be part of the world community; United Press reported from Berlin that German
prison authorities had decided that no Jew, "no matter how exemplary his
behavior," could serve as a prison trusty, a job fit for Aryans only.

    SHARING THE DIRECTOR'S VISION

    Director Sidney Lumet, whose newest movie is "Gloria," told Madison magazine
he's not ashamed to admit that some of his movies have been bad. "It's not as if
you're kidding anybody. It's out there and it's a stinker, and everybody can see
it. The truth is, we're like everybody else. We're capable of total
self-deception. . . . Especially since there can be 20 other motives for making
the movie. Like, you want the money."

    Lumet called it nonsense to think that a director has complete control of a
movie.

    "I use the word print,' so that means I'm in control of the moment-to-moment
things. But to even use the word authorship' is nonsense. It's like Hollywood
agents and studio heads who keep saying, What's your vision of the movie?'

    "What vision? What are you talking about? Why use all the hocus-pocus? I'm
not Mother Teresa seeing the Virgin up there! That's what a vision is. About a
movie . . . it's not a vision, it's work."

    FLORA, FAUNA AND DUMPLINGS

    -- Gauhati, a 4-year-old male rhinoceros at the San Francisco Zoo, has a
sore behind -- they call it "diaper rash," but he doesn't wear diapers -- which
keepers are treating with Avon Skin-So-Soft lotion.

    -- Oscar London, an East Bay physician and writer, notes in an essay about
doctors and smell that white European males smell the worst of all his patients.
After London presented one exchange student with a line drawing of a cylinder of
deodorant with a roll-on ball, the patient became angry, muttering to his
girlfriend. She blushed and said "that he thinks I've just drawn a picture of a
penis and just what was I trying to tell him?"

    -- In a chemistry laboratory at Washington University in St. Louis,
scientists who identified spherical particles that eventually may be used to
deliver DNA in gene therapy have named them "shell-cross-linked knedels." A
report gleaned by Peter Linde from the Chemical & Engineering News explains the
origin of the name: The particles reminded one researcher of knedels, a Polish
dumpling made of meat encased in dough.

    -- People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has launched its first
Spanish-language campaign with full-page ads in newspapers in Chicago, Dallas,
Houston, Los Angeles, Miami and New York.

    GOOD WORKS

    Kacy Duke, self-described "healer" and personal trainer to the stars, told
the Washington Post that she worked pro bono with Monica Lewinsky for months, in
secret, before her grand jury appearances.

    In conversation while working out, Lewinsky "gave me many reasons to be
thankful that I voted for (Clinton)," Duke said.

    WHO SAID WHAT

    "Women don't necessarily want a transaction. They want a relationship.
That's the way we are in our lives. We wanted to build a relationship that would
really drive deep loyalty to the brand."

    Terry Preskar of Nabisco, explaining to the New York Times the company's
marketing its low-fat cookies as a way to bond mothers and daughters. In an
earlier campaign, reported in Personals, Nabisco tried to sell this stuff as a
way to raise women's self-esteem.



GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Front page of Chronicle special section

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999


                             1619 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                   February 12, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE STUDY AT PITT

BODY:


   A type of gene therapy designed to grow new blood vessels in the lower leg is
being studied by researchers at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

   One million people in the United States have peripheral vascular disease, in
which arteries become narrow and the blood flow and oxygen supply to the lower
leg is reduced. The result is severe pain, called claudication, that can limit
walking. Surgery is usually required to re-establish blood flow.

   Now doctors may be able to use genes to create a better blood supply to the
lower leg.

   Angiogenesis, or new blood vessels growth, is stimulated by a protein called
vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. For the new study, the gene that
makes VEGF is injected into the muscle, carried by a human cold virus that has
been modified so it doesn't cause illness. Scientists hope that when the gene
gets into cells, VEGF will be made, new blood vessels will grow and symptoms
will improve.

   Three centers are participating in a trial to check for toxic side effects of
the therapy. About a dozen of the 40 patients needed will be enrolled at UPMC.
Patients will receive either the gene therapy or a placebo treatment.

   To find out more about the study, call 412-647- 8762.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999


                             1620 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1999 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           February 11, 1999 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Stay home, see future: Expo 2000 in the park

BYLINE: NEIL MORGAN

BODY:

   No one will accuse this nonchalant city of any unseemly rush to exploit the
millennium.

   Have you heard yet about Expo 2000? One of every five Americans expects to
travel by jet, train or car to some place else on Dec. 31. Disneyland's
millennium packages are already sold out.

   Premium rooms are almost gone at Las Vegas, Times Square, Hawaii and
Greenwich, England.

   Airlines are only beginning to sell such tickets, and we in the cheap-seat
crowd already plan to stay home in San Diego. Meanwhile, the organizing
committee of San Diego's Expo 2000 is meeting with ConVis officials this week to
discuss tourism prospects of a yearlong celebration to begin at Balboa Park in
July. This venture is home-grown, but intended to do what expositions of 1915
and 1935 did to create the image of San Diego. So far, Expo 2000 is mostly on
paper, and on a home page with empty blocks to indicate the days, hours, minutes
and seconds until the year 2000. SAIC built the Web site.

   It has a pretty picture of our mayor, but its numbers aren't ticking yet.
Such details don't chill the fervor of attorneys Steve Wall and David Brennan
and that indomitable park matriarch, Betty Peabody, or their directors and
consultants in Expo 2000. Or even to discourage me, about the prospect of what
really could happen there in Balboa Park if we get around to it.

   We are, after all, destined to become, in our mayor's vaunted phrase, the
first great city of the 21st century. As in many such ways, she's on the right
track.

   San Diego carries an insider's role into the new century.

   We don't have as much clutter to tear down as most big cities before we can
get it right, either in our buildings or in our heads.

   Innovative instincts thrive like ice plant. Yet we have a daunting challenge,
especially at this late date.

   It is to provide, within an incomparable park that introduced San Diego to
Americans in 1915 and 1935, some hint of what's happening now within this
region's laboratories, research institutes and universities. The world is no
longer astonished by crimson bougainvillaea or midwinter swimming, by fan
dancers or honkytonk.

   But San Diego's Expo 2000 could become center stage for a hands-on feel of
our high-tech tomorrow. At Insights last October, thousands of us seemed
transfixed by the Convention Center trade show of regional technology.

   I spent an hour there with kids and teachers working at blackboard-sized
computer screens.

   If you go to an emergency room with chest pains, another exhibit proclaimed,
a cardiologist can now learn, in 15 minutes, critical blood factors that have
until now taken hours to confirm. Even insiders are dazzled.

   Monroe Trout, who discovered San Diego after a corporate lifetime in
pharmaceuticals around the world, talks over lunch: "I just had the incredible
opportunity to spend two days learning about new products from San Diego
companies.

   I couldn't believe the stuff that's already proven in the markets.

   One company (Biosite) can replace the catheter in measuring blood flows up to
the heart.

   Another (Isis) has a product based on antisense technology that can
accelerate gene therapy." Good stuff is already lined up for Expo 2000,
especially from Balboa Park museums whose close realliance has prodded it.

   The Museum of Man, which resides above a cavernous basement treasury of
Pan-American artifacts, will reproduce its show from the 1915 exposition.

   The Aerospace Museum would pull out the 1935 Ford Tri-Motor. Above all are
the buildings of those years, and the zoo, the legacies of earlier expositions,
together attracting 12 million visitors each year. During a three-day
celebration over New Year's, Balboa Park will become a sure best-seller. But are
we ready now, as our civic ancestors were during those expositions, to try to
tell the world who we have become? NEIL MORGAN'S column appears Sunday, Tuesday
and Thursday.

   He can be reached by e-mail at neil.morgan@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1621 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1999 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                      February 11, 1999 Thursday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: TOBACCO SETTLEMENT: SPEND OR SAVE?;
STATE WATCHDOG GROUP SUGGESTS TRUST FUND FOR FUTURE NEEDS

BYLINE: By Ed Anderson Capital bureau

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE

BODY:

   Most of the $4.4 billion the state expects to get from a nationwide
settlement with the tobacco industry should be placed in a trust fund for future
generations with a small portion used to cover immediate needs, a governmental
watchdog agency recommended Wednesday.

   The Council for A Better Louisiana said the money the state will get over the
next 25 years should not be used to balance state budgets or pay for recurring
needs.

   Gov. Foster said he would have to review the council's recommendation a
little more, but he thinks a good share of the money should go for immediate
state needs.

   Council spokesman Barry Erwin said the group will ask lawmakers to create the
trust fund at the legislative session that begins March 29. He said discussions
so far have centered on putting 75 percent of the annual payments in the trust
fund and using the remainder for immediate needs.

   The state is expected to get $54 million this year and varying amounts over
the next 24 years. State officials have indicated Louisiana's total may increase
because of its role in previous tobacco litigation.

   "This settlement represents a unique windfall, the likes of which Louisiana
may never see again," said council Chairman Dennis Stine, a Lake Charles
businessman who served in the House and was commissioner of administration under
Gov. Buddy Roemer.  "The lessons of our past tell us money that's not saved is
squandered. We don't want that to happen with these funds."

   Under the council plan, Erwin said, lawmakers will be asked to pass a
constitutional amendment setting up the trust fund for the settlement money. The
amendment, which requires a two thirds vote of the House and Senate and a vote
of the people to pass, would include the purposes for which the money could be
spent.

   Erwin said although the council has not come up with recommendations on how
the smaller portion can be spent, the organization is leaning toward health-care
needs and education-related issues.

   After several years, Erwin said, when the interest from the untouched portion
of the trust fund equals the amount that is being allocated to the "immediate
spending needs," then all of the money from the annual payments should go into
the trust fund. At that point, the council would like to see the state use the
interest while leaving the trust fund money untouched.

   Foster said the present-day needs for the money would include cancer research
programs and possibly gene therapy.

   Foster said that talk of a trust fund or ways to spend the $4.4 billion may
be premature because the federal government has laid claim to more than half the
states' share.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999


                             1622 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                   February 10, 1999, Wednesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 4; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA / A NEWS SUMMARY;
 THE LOCAL REVIEW / DEVELOPMENTS IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY;
 CANCER CLAIMS GIRL WHO WAS FOCUS OF COMMUNITY DRIVE

DATELINE: CARSON

BODY:


   A young girl whose battle against an inoperable brain tumor sparked a
tremendous community fund-raising effort died Saturday in a Texas hospital.

   Aja Tate, who had a tumor in her brain stem, succumbed to an infection while
she was receiving an experimental gene therapy paid for with donated funds, her
family said.

   She would have been 7 years old on Feb. 23.

   "I know people say she's in a better place, but I still feel her place is
with me," said her mother, Joyce Tate.

   Aja, who was diagnosed as having the tumor in June, had radiation treatment
last summer, then slipped into a coma after the tumor began to bleed. When she
woke up, she was paralyzed.

   Doctors said there was little hope, but her parents wanted to take Aja to
Houston, where a doctor performs a controversial gene therapy that some cancer
patients have said helped when all else failed.

   In the few weeks Aja had the procedure, she showed some improvement and was
able to move her shoulder and wiggle her toes, Tate said.

   "She put up a good fight," she said.

   Aja's plight generated a tremendous response after Ronda Jones, a teacher at
her elementary school, helped organize a drive to raise money for the treatment,
which was not covered by the family's health insurance.

   By last week, $ 61,000 in donations had been raised. Letters and cards for
Aja, along with pictures drawn by children, flooded the Carson city treasurer's
office, which was administering a trust account to pay for her medical expenses.

   "Everybody here is just very sad," said City Treasurer Mary Custer. "We cry a
lot for that little girl."

   A benefit concert for Aja, to be held Feb. 26 at the Wiltern Theatre, is
still tentatively scheduled to go on, organizers said. The money raised would be
used to help other families with sick children who want treatments not covered
by their insurance companies.

   Funeral services for Aja are pending, her mother said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aja Tate, shown in kindergarten photo.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999


                             1623 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                   February 9, 1999, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg. E-5, FITNESS FOR ALL

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: COMING SOON: THE EXERCISE PILL?

BYLINE: JOHN FAUBER, MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL

BODY:


   Is exercise on its way to becoming obsolete?

   Don't cancel your health club membership, but at an accelerating rate,
researchers are announcing breakthroughs that someday may lead to drugs and
therapies that mimic the beneficial effects of exercise.

   All you would have to do to get fit is sit back.

   In August, researchers in Texas said their recent work could lead to the
development of a drug that might mimic benefits of aerobic exercise in sedentary
people.

   Since then, there have been at least two more developments:

   In December, Science News reported on a new type of gene therapy that appears
to halt the age-related loss of muscle tissue, at least in mice. In humans, the
loss can amount to 30 percent of a person's muscle tissue between their 30s and
70s.

   So far, the only "therapy" that can slow down the loss is strength training.

   A few weeks earlier, another group of researchers, at the University of
Mississippi, said that a new type of fat-burning drugs could revolutionize the
treatment of obesity in humans by producing a metabolic effect similar to that
of exercise.

   The drugs have been shown to break down fat and expend energy by mimicking
the effects of the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine, two hormones that
prepare the body for strenuous exercise.

   A pill form of the drugs could be on the market in the next five to 10 years,
said Dennis Feller, chairman of pharmacology at the university's School of
Pharmacy.

   In another development last August, researchers at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas said they have discovered a genetic switch
that tells muscles how to behave.

   The scientists found a molecular pathway that tells muscle fiber to be either
the so-called fast-twitch strength muscle found in weight lifters and sprinters
or the slow-twitch endurance muscle found in aerobic exercisers such as distance
runners.

   "When people go jogging, molecular events happen in the muscle they are
exercising that both enhance their capability to exercise further and improve
their health," researcher R. Sanders Williams said. "We believe it is possible
to design a drug which would have this effect."

   The pace of all these and other breakthroughs doesn't mean that the treadmill
and barbell will become passe. Initially, these developments will be used to
help the truly ailing, people with heart disease, muscular dystrophy, diabetes
or the old and frail.

   But one wonders if, years down the road, healthy people will have a
dramatically different approach to exercise.

   For the moment, it's probably best to keep doing things the old fashioned
way.

   Down the road, if exercise drugs replace exercise, you'll be that much ahead
of the game.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1999


                             1624 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1999 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       February 9, 1999 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. F5

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BRIEFING

BODY:

   Stressed for Success?

   Have a job? How about headaches? Sleep disturbances? Difficulty in
concentrating? These are some of the early warning signs of job stress, a
problem for up to 40 percent of the work force. If you suffer from on-the-job
stress, a new booklet by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and
Health titled "Stress At Work" may help. It provides tips on stress management
and prevention, as well as a page of resources. For a free copy, call NIOSH at
1-800-356-4674.


   New blood

   Using gene therapy techniques, Stanford University researchers have caused
adult mice to begin growing new blood vessels. The discovery could help
scientists find ways to cause humans to grow new vessels to help a diseased
heart or help diabetics avoid the loss of limbs because of a lack of blood
supply to tissue. The Stanford scientists inserted into the leg muscles of the
mice a gene that produces a growth protein that in turn stimulated blood vessel
growth.

   Getting your vitamins

   More and more of you are complementing your diets with supplements. Sales of
vitamins and dietary supplements in the United States, Britain and Italy rose
more than 50 percent between 1994 and 1998, reports Euromonitor, a firm that
does market research analysis. It says growth in the United States, where sales
topped $6.76 billion in 1998, was driven by strong demand for herbal dietary
supplements prompted by growing media interest in the subject.

   Flu hasn't flown

   Speaking of supplements, keep popping that Vitamin C. The winter flu season
has been mild so far, but threatens to worsen in the next few weeks, the Center
for Disease Control and Prevention says.

   From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999


                             1625 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                     February 8, 1999, Monday, Home Edition

SECTION: Health; Part S; Page 2; View Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: SAY 'AAAH';
 YOUR HEALTH ONLINE;
 LOOKING FOR SOME HEART-TO-HEART ADVICE ABOUT VALENTINE'S DAY?

BYLINE: MARLA BOLOTSKY

BODY:


   Tired of frilly red ribbons and silly candy hearts in abundance around
Valentine's Day? Then take a look at the other heart, the amazingly efficient
blood pump that is not so neatly trimmed and is shaped more like an upside-down
pear than a Valentine.

   Visit the Web site for the Franklin Institute Science Museum in Philadelphia
(http://www.sln.fi.edu/biosci/heart.html) to see blood vessels carrying oxygen
and waste products and how this contributes to the overall functioning of your
body. It's a fascinating process.

   But for 7 million Americans who suffer from coronary heart disease, the
machine is not working right. More than 500,000 Americans die of heart attacks
caused by coronary disease, making it the No. 1 killer of men and women.

   Want to know whether you are at risk for coronary heart disease? The
Houston-based Texas Heart Institute's Web site
(http://www.tmc.edu/thi/heartest.html) offers an interactive risk-awareness quiz
based on nine key factors. The quiz can give you an overall feel for whether you
may be at risk.

   Looking for more? The American Heart Assn. (www.americanheart.org) is a great
resource. This site also offers an interactive risk awareness quiz at
http://www.americanheart.org/risk/quiz.html. But don't stop there. There's
information on treating heart ailments and taking care of your heart.

   AHA's site also has an extensive A-to-Z heart and stroke guide, a new women's
Web site (http://women.americanheart.org/), heart disease statistics, health
care news and the Top 10 research advances for 1998
(http://www.amhrt.org/Whats_News/AHA_News_Releases/12-30-98top10.html). I
learned that using gene therapy to grow new blood vessels was one of the most
promising advances last year. You can find information about resuming sexual
activity after a heart attack or heart surgery, or send a message to Congress
about heart-related issues. The AHA site also includes a good list of
Spanish-language materials.

   You'll even discover a Valentine's Day treat, "Heart to Heart E-cards"
(http://www.americanheart.org/ecard/), which enable you to send electronic
messages to friends or loved ones encouraging them to improve their health by
making lifestyle changes. It takes just a few minutes to select an image
(designs created by a stroke survivor), a greeting (it's more than just a
Valentine) and a heart-healthy message.

   The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute has a new community-based
heart-health promotion initiative you can learn about at
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/nhlbi/cardio/latino/latin_pg.htm. Called "Salud Para su
Corazon," the site also has a special section devoted to lowering cholesterol
(http://rover.nhlbi.nih.gov/chd/), as well as a list of resources targeting
Latino users.

   For specific medical information on heart conditions, it's worth mentioning a
few sites that have been featured in previous columns.

   Mayo Clinic's Health Oasis has a Heart Center complete with links, a Q&A with
a Mayo physician and interactive quizzes. The Cleveland Clinic Heart Center
sponsors the Heart Forum (http://www.medhelp.org/perl6/cardio/). There you can
post questions to a Cleveland Clinic cardiologist, who promises to answer all
questions. You can also communicate with others who have sent in questions.
There's an archive of past questions and information about the clinic's
services.

   And if it's nutritional content you're looking for, the Web comes through
again. The American Dietetic Assn.'s site reports that you can partake in some
Valentine's Day chocolate and still be true to your heart's health
(http://www.eatright.org/erm/erm021398.html). Turns out that the fat in
chocolate does not increase blood cholesterol when consumed in moderate amounts.
So if you have the will power to limit your intake (unlike me!), then go for it.

   Even the National Assn. of Margarine Manufacturers wants to spread
information about healthy nutrition (http://www.healthyfridge.org). In
cooperation with the American Medical Women's Assn., the margarine makers' "Open
the Door to a Healthy Heart" campaign seeks to educate consumers about diet and
heart disease (and perhaps increase margarine sales while they're at it). At the
same site, you can also read about the "make-over" done on New Orleans Saints'
Coach Mike Ditka's refrigerator.

   And since Valentine's Day is just around the corner, here are two sites that
focus on the emotional heart. Dr. Dean Ornish, best known for his diet and
exercise program to reverse heart disease, discusses how love, support, personal
connections and intimacy aid the healing process. You can read an interview with
him at http://www.pei.sympatico.ca/healthyway/HEALTHYWAY/interview_15.html.

   And finally, try Virtual Florist, http://www.virtualflorist.com. It's a
personal favorite. You can send a free virtual bouquet of flowers with a
personalized note to anyone who's online.

   And if the commercialism of Valentine's Day wears you down, you might do this
for a loved one: Check out the recommended sites to learn more about your heart
and how to take better care of it. Then act on the information, whether it's
saying no to the doughnuts your co-workers brought in, practicing meditation to
relieve stress or walking around the block during your lunch hour. You'll feel a
lot healthier, and maybe even more loving, too.


   *

   Marla Bolotsky is managing editor and director of online information for the
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. She welcomes suggestions of Web sites for
review and can be reached by e-mail atmarla.bolotsky@latimes.com.

   Your Health Online runs every other Monday in Health.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The American Dietetic Assn.'s Web site explains the good news
that having a bit of Valentine's Day chocolate won't hurt your heart, since
moderate consumption does not increase blood cholesterol.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999


                             1626 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)



                           February 08, 1999, Monday

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 2

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES; PASCO TIMES

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Citrus boy's progress mirrors research center's

BYLINE: JIM ROSS

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS

BODY:


   (ran PC edition of PASCO TIMES)

   At an Orlando research center that bears the name of a 6-year-old boy,
scientists advance toward a cure for hydrocephalus.

   These are exciting times for Wade Phillips and the scientific research center
that bears his name.

   Wade, a Beverly Hills boy who turned 6 in December, has hydrocephalus, a
condition in which excessive amounts of cerebral spinal fluid accumulate within
and around the brain.

   In July 1997, thanks to a generous gift from Wade's grandfather, Larry
Phillips, medical officials in Orlando opened Wade's Center for Hydrocephalus.
It is one of the few research centers worldwide dedicated both to improving the
lives of people with the ailment and to finding a cure.

   Since the Times profiled Wade and the center in August 1997, both have made
significant progress.

   Wade attends kindergarten and takes tennis lessons, both of which he loves.
T-ball practice will start soon.

   Although he still undergoes a regimen of speech, physical and occupational
therapy, Wade has taken tremendous strides.

   "Two years ago, he could hardly talk. He knew four words," said Wade's
mother, April. "Now he's talking in full sentences."

   Indeed, Wade has a broad smile and chats politely with adults. He spent a
recent afternoon running about the house, playing with his younger sister and
chasing their kitten, Dee, which had escaped into the front yard.

   Wade no longer has Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, a cardiac condition that
caused his heart to beat too rapidly.

   Because of that condition, his brain went without oxygen for a period of time
before birth, which led to brain hemorrhaging that caused the hydrocephalus.

   Wade still travels to Orlando every six or nine months for specialized
medical care, but "it's basically just for a checkup," Mrs. Phillips said.

   Meanwhile, researchers at the Wade's Center are making steady progress.

   Scientists note that hydrocephalus is caused when there is a blockage in the
small channel through which cerebral spinal fluid drains from the brain.

   Researchers are trying to discover the characteristics of the tissues that
cause the blockage.

   These days, researchers are examining one gene, called TGF Beta 1, which
makes the protein material involved in the growth, or lack of growth, of cells.

   "It's a controlling protein. It has a lot to do with a number of biological
processes" including development and differentiation of organs and tissues, Jane
Gibson said.

   Gibson is a molecular geneticist and director of the Health Research
Institute, a part of Orlando Regional Healthcare System. Wade's Center is part
of the institute.

   According to Gibson, the center's research suggests that lower levels of TGF
Beta 1 may be associated with hydrocephalus.

   "It's one observation, and it's a lead that we're going to follow up on to
see if it's got clinical applications," she said.

   Gibson said most hydrocephalus researchers concentrate on brain structure or
the makeup of cerebral spinal fluid. The Orlando team is looking at the cellular
features of the tissues that are causing the blockages.

   On a related front, Dr. Jogi Pattisapu, a pediatric neurosurgeon and the
medical director at Wade's Center, is continuing to refine a less-invasive
procedure for cleaning the shunts that hydrocephalus patients must use.

   These shunts, or tubes, are placed in the brain so that the excess fluid can
be drained into other parts of the body.

   Previously, patients underwent surgery so doctors could replace
malfunctioning or clogged shunts. The new procedure, also performed in an
operating room, allows doctors to insert a needle into the shunt and remove the
fluid. The doctor then inserts a small scope, like a camera, that allows him or
her to look inside the device and clean it as necessary.

   "It is gratifying to be able to use just a needle stick, rather than see a
child - and his or her parents - go through the pain and suffering of being
opened up," Pattisapu wrote in a hospital publication. He has been developing
the procedure for more than six years and is thought to be the only doctor
worldwide who is performing it.

   In December 1996, Wade became the third patient to undergo the procedure. He
hasn't needed a shunt operation since.

   "The research has, to us, paid off because he's having fewer surgeries," Mrs.
Phillips said.

   Although the base research is conducted in Orlando, Wade's Center takes a
multidisciplinary approach and uses the expertise of scientists at the
University of Central Florida and the University of Florida.

   Part of the team is Dr. Xingang Cai, senior research scientist for Wade's
Center.

   He said the center's plans include designing a genetic therapy to correct
hydrocephalus.

   "The eventual goal would be to treat the patient before he is born," Cai
said.

   Although news at home and in Orlando continues to be good, the Phillips
family is hardly resting easy.

   Larry Phillips, Wade's grandfather, still sponsors a golf tournament each
May, with proceeds going to Wade's Center. He owns and operates Buick and Toyota
dealerships in Leesburg and also a dealership in Ocala.

   Along with his son Rob - Wade's father - Phillips also operates an Eagle,
Buick, GMC truck dealership in Crystal River.

   April Phillips is active in a hydrocephalus support group. She also sold
chances in a recent fund-raising contest that helped raise $ 7,000 for Wade's
Center.

   A Citrus County resident won the grand prize: a vehicle donated by the
Phillips family.

   "It (the contest) really got the word out . . . through Citrus County, Orange
County and Osceola County," said Pam Gould, an official with the Orlando
Regional Healthcare System.

   Wade Phillips, 6, of Beverly Hills in Citrus County, who has hydrocephalus,
has progressed in the last two years from speaking only four words to speaking
full sentences, his mother says. T-ball practice begins soon for the boy.


GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, RON THOMPSON; Wade Phillips, 6, of Beverly Hills
in Citrus County, who has hydrocephalus, has progressed in the last two years
from speaking only four words to speaking full sentences. (ran HT)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999


                             1627 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     February 7, 1999, Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: READER; Pg. 05C

LENGTH: 753 words

SERIES: Home

HEADLINE: Health Watch;
THE WEEK'S TOP MEDICAL STORIES

BODY:


   AIDS findings will impact care, research
 The AIDS virus originated from a type of chimp found in western Africa. Potent
new anti-HIV treatments may be just around the corner. And doctors may soon be
able to better determine who might benefit most from AIDS drugs.

   These were just a few key findings presented this week to 3,000 top AIDS
experts at the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in
Chicago. A scientific sampler of the session's major research presentations:
Drs. Beatrice Hahn and George Shaw of the University of Alabama at Birmingham
reported that the AIDS virus has spread on at least three occasions from
chimpanzees to people in Africa. One of these cross-species transmissions was
the start of the epidemic that now infects about 35 million people worldwide.
Because chimps, which have probably carried the virus for hundreds of thousands
of years, do not get sick from HIV, figuring out why could offer important clues
to treating AIDS. Testing patients for resistance to HIV drugs might help
doctors better plan drug therapy, especially for pregnant women and their
infants, some newly infected people and health care workers exposed to
HIV-infected blood. Drug-resistant forms of the virus are showing up more often,
worrying doctors and patients who fear they'll run out of treatment options
before new drugs become available. Six new HIV drugs that show early promise of
being more powerful, easier to tolerate and more effective against
drug-resistant forms of the virus are in various stages of laboratory and human
testing and may soon complement the 14 HIV medications available. Giving
HIV-infected pregnant women standard medicines, such as the drug AZT, for just a
week cuts the risk they will pass on the virus during childbirth by more than
one-third. Gene therapy for Parkinson's? Researchers have taken what could be a
key step toward developing gene therapy for Parkinson's disease. Corrective
genes delivered to certain brain cells of laboratory mice saved them from dying
of a simulated form of the disease and corrected some of their walking
difficulties, reported scientists at the University of Washington and Cell
Genesys of California. Mice that received the treatment survived for a year
without daily injections of a substance that converts to dopamine, a brain
chemical that is deficient in Parkinson's patients. Animals that did not receive
injections or the gene therapy died within three days. The research is reported
in the January issue of the journal Neuron. Curing cirrhosis: Scientists wiped
out liver cirrhosis in rats by injecting their muscles with a human gene,
raising early hopes for a new treatment for people. The gene made the rats pump
out big quantities of a protein that promotes liver regeneration while reducing
cell death. Such treatment might someday be able to prevent cirrhosis. The work
is reported in the February issue of the journal Nature Medicine by Dr. Jiro
Fujimoto of the Hyogo College of Medicine in Nishinomiya, Japan. Heart and
vitamins: Although anti-oxidant vitamins that occur naturally in foods may help
lower the risk of heart disease, evidence that vitamins from supplements has the
same effect isn't strong enough to recommend using them, the American Heart
Association said. The AHA statement on heart health and vitamin supplements
published in the association's journal, Circulation, said researchers have
focused for several years on how anti-oxidant vitamins such as E, C and
beta-carotene, a form of vitamin A, have counteracted oxidants in the
bloodstream. But so far, researchers haven't been able to tell from animal or
human studies whether there might be something else in foods rich in
anti-oxidant vitamins that's not present in pill supplements. Striking at
stroke: For the first time, doctors have shown they can reverse massive strokes
up to six hours after the start of symptoms by squirting a clot-dissolving
medicine directly into the brain. The new approach offers potentially better
treatment for the worst strokes and a doubling of the three-hour window for
stroke victims to get help before they suffer brain damage. Doctors tested the
medicine, prourokinase, on people who suffered a serious form of the disease
that accounts for one-third of the 600,000 strokes treated each year in the
United States. The results of the prourokinase study, directed by the Cleveland
Clinic Foundation, were released at a stroke conference sponsored by the
American Heart Association.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999


                             1628 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                     February 7, 1999, Sunday, Home Edition

SECTION: Los Angeles Times Magazine; Page 24; Times Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1885 words

HEADLINE: SPECIAL MILLENNIUM ISSUE / EDUCATION;
 THE PROFESSORIATE;
 THREE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY;
 A SCIENTIST, A MUSICIAN AND AN ENGLISH TEACHER. WHAT THEY'VE GOT IN COMMON ARE
VISION, ENTHUSIASM AND STAYING POWER.;
 FAST FORWARD: UCLA NOBEL LAUREATE LOUIS J. IGNARRO HELPED BRING THE WORLD
VIAGRA----BY 2010 HE EXPECTS TO HAVE HEART DISEASE ON THE RUN.

BYLINE: CAROLYN RAMSAY, Carolyn Ramsay is a Los Angeles-based freelance writer

BODY:


   Mr. Louis J. Ignarro can't wait. The guy who used to blast over the asphalt
in flame-spewing dragsters and frenzy his pulse with competitive speed skating
can't wait to walk to his office at the UCLA School of Medicine at 5 each
morning. He can't wait to read about new drugs being developed in an explosion
of research that he helped set off (does the name Viagra ring a bell?). And he
can't wait--he really can't wait--to build a heart institute where scientists
and physicians can catch up with his vision for the new millennium: driving
America's most voracious killer into a hasty retreat. "By 2010, I think we can
cut way back on deaths due to cardiovascular disease," the 57-year-old
pharmacologist says in a raspy voice tinged with a trace of New York. "That's my
goal."

   Last year, Ignarro's urgent shoves against his field's scalpel-sharp cutting
edge led to a Nobel Prize in medicine. And still he's in a hurry. Still he works
14-hour days, researching, experimenting and coaxing yet another classroom of
students to sprint toward the future for which he refuses to wait.

   "Very little has been accomplished," Ignarro says, pausing for a moment in
his laboratory to explain his impatience. "The discoveries have been made. Now
we need to take advantage of the discoveries to develop better methods of
diagnosis and better methods of treatment."

   Ignarro's preoccupation with 2010 is a new thing, a byproduct of his Nobel
Prize. Even before that, though, he was driven--and by the same unlikely muse.
Indeed, if Nobel laureates were like their Oscar-winning counterparts, Ignarro
might well have gone weepy and gushed: And most of all, I'd like to thank a
miraculous little molecule without which I wouldn't be here today, nitric oxide!

   Nitric oxide--NO to the cognoscenti--is most famous for contributing to the
creation of smog. In the 1970s and 1980s, however, Ignarro and two far-flung
scientists (Dr. Ferid Murad in Houston and Dr. Robert Furchgott in New York)
performed independent experiments showing it to be a naturally occurring gas in
the human body. This new research revealed that nitric oxide performs an array
of biological feats, such as helping the body to regulate blood pressure and
blood flow. That any gas--let alone a common air pollutant--performed key
functions in the blood was a revolutionary idea. Says Jonathan Stamler, a
leading researcher at Duke University: "It's hard for me to recall a factor in
biology that has had as broad an impact on cell and organ systems as nitric
oxide."

   Ignarro did his early work on the molecule at Tulane University in New
Orleans. When he took his position at UCLA in 1985, he swiftly set up his lab,
hired a staff and began experiments to prove a hunch. Nitric oxide and another
molecule had been observed modifying cardiovascular function. Ignarro suspected
the chemicals were one and the same. "It took a year and a half to prove it and
I stayed quiet . . . . I didn't want anybody to find it and publish it before we
did," Ignarro says, wincing at the memory. "I almost developed an ulcer."

   In July 1986, Ignarro and Furchgott each announced independently, at the same
medical conference, that the two molecules were actually nitric oxide. To
Ignarro, that pivotal moment was a springboard. Working with other researchers
at UCLA, he went on to study the effect of nitric oxide on penile tissue, laying
the groundwork for a new anti-impotency drug. The Scientist magazine called
Viagra "the most successful drug introduction in history." Ignarro believes it
broke the taboo against impotence, which affects 9% of men worldwide.

   Last year, in announcing its $ 976,000 prize to Ignarro, Murad and Furchgott,
the Nobel Committee praised their discoveries for unleashing "an avalanche of
research activities in many different laboratories around the world." The
committee called Ignarro's experiments a "brilliant series of analyses."


   *

   A few decades back, Ignarro's Long Island neighbors probably took a different
view of his work. His interest in science, Ignarro says, began in his parents'
garage, where his boyhood "experiments" often ended with a bang. This
fascination with explosions led to another pursuit: drag racing. After joining a
club called the Midnighters, Ignarro raced professionally for several years,
winning about a dozen championship races and setting the speed record in his
classification.

   Ignarro's father, a carpenter who grew up in Naples, Italy, and immigrated to
Long Island, wanted desperately for his oldest boy to become a doctor or lawyer.
So there is a certain poetry in the way this son of an Italian immigrant learned
he had received the Nobel Prize.

   Ignarro was flying to Naples for a speaking engagement when the award was
announced ("On Columbus Day," his mother points out). His colleagues arranged
for military police to meet him on the runway and for a motorcade to whisk him
off to an impromptu party and presentation of civic medals by the mayor.

   The attention moved and overwhelmed Ignarro, who, despite his urgency, is a
very unpretentious and deliberate man. Which is not to say that he fits the
stereotype of the aloof research scientist. A huge football fan, he often wears
a Bruins tie with his meticulously pressed khakis. And he's so popular with
medical students that he has won 10 teaching awards for the pharmacology class
he conducts five days a week at 8 a.m. Despite his frenetic schedule, Ignarro
spends two hours a day preparing for his class. And, naturally, he takes time
outside of class to answer lingering questions, former students say.

   Aaron Jacobs, a doctoral student in Ignarro's laboratory, watches his mentor
and shudders to think that his own life as a professor could be as fast-paced.
"His schedule," Jacobs says, "worries me."

   Perhaps the only recorded example of Ignarro's moving slowly involves his new
wife, Dr. Sharon Williams Ignarro, 42. She had been his student. But he waited
until she finished medical school before contacting her by e-mail. "She was much
older than the other students in the class and we did not date. We did nothing,
absolutely nothing," Ignarro says, with the timing of a natural comedian. "I
just stared."

   Before receiving the Nobel Prize, Ignarro had considered changing careers.
Now he feels the gravity of his new status. At 57, he is a relative youngster
among Nobel laureates--and the first at UCLA's medical school. "Receiving this
recognition for all the good work I've done made me realize it would be foolish
to get away from it now," he says. "In trying to understand how nitric oxide
works, many of us have made new discoveries pertaining to the possible causes of
high blood pressure, arteriosclerosis and so on."

   Opinion is divided in the cardiovascular research community about Ignarro's
2010 deadline for major breakthroughs. "He's right on," says Dr. Robert Kloner,
director of research at Good Samaritan Hospital's heart institute. But Duke's
Stamler warns that curing one heart ailment often opens the door for others.
"There was no accelerated transplant arteriosclerosis before there was
transplantation." What Ignarro envisions is a $ 40-million cardiovascular
research institute at UCLA where the world's top researchers and heart doctors
will work together. Aside from finding new applications for the discoveries
involving nitric oxide, Ignarro is also eager to build on gene therapies. By
2003, he says, the entire structure of the human genome will be mapped out. A
few years beyond that researchers will be able to identify the basis of genetic
diseases such as heart disease and cancer. "So, by 2005 we should be able to
treat every known genetic disorder. You're going to see. The first 10 years of
the next millennium will be the magic bullet decade for drugs and therapeutics,"
Ignarro says.

   At the moment there's a more pressing problem: where in his office to display
his new prize. "It's mind-boggling," he says, staring at the gold medal. "I
still don't believe it sometimes, you know?"

   Still, his colleagues have taken precautions to assure that Ignarro isn't
immobilized by his sudden fame. Planted in a corner of his lab is a life-size
cutout of the professor. A cartoon bubble has him saying: "Nobel Schnobel, Get
back to work."

   organizations such as the precursor of the International Assn. of Jazz
Educators began advocating for what many viewed as an endangered art form. An
institutional infrastructure formed. "The savior of jazz has been jazz
education," declares pianist Billy Taylor, a pioneer whose national Jazzmobile
project has been training teachers and instructing kids for more than three
decades. Berg agrees. The jazz educators group, of which he once served as
president, has nourished many of the best players to emerge in the last 10 to 15
years, including Marcus Roberts and Roy Hargrove. So it's a shock when he says
that jazz education, for most of its history, has been a pedagogical disaster.
The problem, he asserts, is an overreliance on modes and scales at the expense
of an old-fashioned jazzman's trick: listening.

   This misguided approach, he and others say, yields technically fluent
musicians who often lack the individuality essential to great art. "One of the
mistakes that has happened in jazz education is that we're not getting enough
innovators, people with something unique to say," observes Kenny Burrell, the
renowned guitarist and founder of UCLA's jazz studies department.

   Berg and other reformers have pushed hard for a new approach, detailed in
Berg's 1990 book "Jazz Improvisation: The Goal-Note Method," which incorporates
more organic teaching techniques and more playing. Berg believes jazz education
would benefit greatly from an overall shakeup of music instruction. "It's time
to drop the bomb and start over," he proclaims. "I think music education in the
next 20 years will totally reevaluate itself in terms of, is it experiential
enough, are we throwing too many facts into people's brains so that they're not
getting to play enough and replicate enough?"

   Berg envisions fewer classes and greater emphasis on the creative
music-making process. While pleased that campus jazz concerts are attracting
more classical students than ever, he wants familiarity with jazz to become a
requirement, not an option. "I've fought hard for respect--I've played classical
recitals at USC --and I think we've got it," says Berg, recalling the days when
his students were barred from practicing on USC's grand pianos. "That fight is
going on everywhere. But jazz is a very important function in musical higher
education. ... The world of music has changed so much that there's no symphony
player, no piano teacher out there who can afford not to understand jazz,
popular music, improvisation."

   A degree in jazz studies may carry a certain social cachet, but it doesn't do
much to impress career counselors or console parents. So each fall, Berg lays it
on the line. "What I tell them is, if you can't imagine yourself happy doing
anything else, then this is for you. If you can imagine yourself happy doing
something else, do it. Because the very fact that you can even imagine it means
that there's room to vacillate, and there's no room to vacillate if you're gonna
try and make it in this field."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "By 2005 we should be able to treat every known genetic
disorder. The first 10 years of the next millennium will be the magic bullet
decade for drugs and therapeutics," says UCLA's Louis Ignarro.  PHOTOGRAPHER:
MICHAEL KELLEY

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999


                             1629 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)



              February 07, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Wound research making strides

BYLINE: SUE LANDRY

DATELINE: SEMINOLE

BODY:


   A team at the VA Medical Center at Bay Pines is testing how growth factors
can help heal lingering injuries.

   A box containing $ 1-million has dozens of keyholes around the edge. All you
have to do to get the money is fit the keys in front of you into the holes in
the right order.

   That's something like the puzzle researchers at the VA Medical Center at Bay
Pines are facing. Only they're trying to heal chronic wounds, not make a lot of
money.

   The Veterans Affairs researchers are trying to help people who don't heal
properly because of medical conditions. For people with certain diseases, such
as diabetes, and people who spend most of their time in wheelchairs, a wound can
take months or even years to heal. Sometimes, it doesn't heal at all.

   "We have some people in our study who have had their wounds for three years,"

 said Dr. Wyatt Payne, a plastic surgeon and member of the VA's wound research
team, one of the most highly regarded of its kind in the country.

   For at least a decade, scientists have had some understanding of why some
wounds heal and others don't.

   They discovered that when a person is injured, the body produces proteins
called growth factors that spur cells in the injured area to recreate the tissue
and skin that was there before the injury. They also discovered that chronic
wounds - the ones that don't heal - lack these critical growth factors.

   The growth factors "induce the natural chemical reactions that allow the
wound to heal," Payne said. "It's kind of like kick-starting the wound or giving
it a jump like you would a car with a dead battery."

   For years, researchers have theorized that if they could add growth factors
to non-healing wounds, they might be able to encourage healing. They couldn't
test that theory, though, until the late 1980s when scientists were able to
begin producing growth factors in the laboratory using recombinant DNA
techniques, in much the same way they produce insulin and other naturally
occurring substances.

   Dr. Martin C. Robson, who established the wound healing program at the Bay
Pines VA Hospital in 1993, was the first to try healing wounds with growth
factors when he was chief of plastic surgery at the University of Texas. He has
continued to be a leader in the field of wound healing and helped the VA obtain
the first research grant issued by the National Institutes of Health to study
the use of more than one growth factor to heal chronic wounds.

   Robson has retired from the VA, but still spends time there, advising the
wound research team and helping analyze data from clinical trials.

   The problem researchers face is that there are dozens of growth factors. In
the past decade, they have tried a number of them with some success at healing
wounds. One growth factor originally studied at the VA - called PDGF or
platelet-derived growth factor - has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for use on diabetic foot ulcers.

   St. Petersburg resident Paul Kennedy, who has diabetes, was among the
patients in a clinical study of PDGF, now sold under the name Regranex. He is
happy to proclaim that a foot ulcer that was refusing to heal closed in 77 days
with the use of the growth factor.

   "I am extremely grateful," Kennedy said. "I will never forget that."

   Larry Hagler, 47, has been living at the VA since October, participating in a
clinical trial to determine whether Regranex, which has been proven only to work
for diabetic ulcers, will also help pressure sores. Hagler has been in a
wheelchair since a car accident in 1995 and has a pressure wound on one of his
buttocks.

   For Hagler, part of the treatment requires keeping pressure off the wound, so
he can't sit. He wheels around the hospital, lying face down on a stretcher,
helping to organize recreation for other patients. Since he is in a clinical
trial, no one knows whether he is being treated with Regranex or a placebo
cream. But the wound has been healing nicely.

   "I'm the poster child for the wound research unit," said Hagler, who came to
Pinellas from Orlando for the wound program and hopes to stay here when he is
discharged. "I believe in this program."

   Still, after 10 years of research, scientists don't have as much to show as
they would like. Results of clinical trials with a variety of growth factors
have been mixed and overall "somewhat discouraging," as Robson wrote in August
in the American Journal of Surgery.

   Here's why: As a wound heals normally, it produces not one growth factor, but
several. And they don't all appear at the same time. Each seems to have a unique
role along the way.

   "Normally when a wound is created, the growth factors are liberated into the
wound," said Jerry Vande Berg, a researcher at the VA Medical Center in San
Diego who has collaborated with Robson on some of the wound research. "But these
wounds sometimes stimulate other growth factors to be produced and some to be
shut down.

   "It starts a whole cascade of events, and some are difficult to detect.
Finding the right two or three or whatever works is a pretty big task."

   The answer could be that a number of growth factors have to be applied in a
certain order and at certain times for the best effect. Finding the right order
is like trying to open that imaginary million-dollar box.

   With the grant from the NIH, the VA team is starting to attack that puzzle.

   Other researchers around the country have been looking at a different
approach. They think they might be able to heal wounds by introducing altered
genes that would create the necessary growth factors. Robson, though, isn't
convinced gene therapy would produce enough growth factors to do the trick.

   That can only be done, he believes, by adding them from the outside.

   Vande Berg, for one, believes that if anyone can crack the code, Robson and
the team of researchers at Bay Pines can.

   "The way he's approaching it is particularly unique," Vande Berg said. "His
work is absolutely first rate."


GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOSEPH GARNETT JR.; Larry Hagler, who is part of
a study of whether a growth factor heals pressure sores, lies on a stretcher
waiting for treatment.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999


                             1630 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)



                           February 07, 1999, Sunday

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Boy's progress mirrors center's

BYLINE: JIM ROSS

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS

BODY:


   At an Orlando research center that bears the name of a Citrus 6-year-old,
scientists advance toward a cure for hydrocephalus.

   These are exciting times for Wade Phillips and the scientific research center
that bears his name.

   Wade, a Beverly Hills boy who turned 6 in December, has hydrocephalus, a
condition in which excessive amounts of cerebral spinal fluid accumulate within
and around the brain.

   In July 1997, thanks to a generous gift from Wade's grandfather, Larry
Phillips, medical officials in Orlando opened Wade's Center for Hydrocephalus.
It is one of the few research centers worldwide dedicated both to improving the
lives of people with the ailment and to finding a cure.

   Since the Citrus Times profiled Wade and the center in August 1997, both have
made significant progress.

   Wade attends kindergarten and takes tennis lessons, both of which he loves.
T-ball practice will start soon.

   Although he still undergoes a regimen of speech, physical and occupational
therapy, Wade has taken tremendous strides.

   "Two years ago, he could hardly talk. He knew four words," said Wade's
mother, April. "Now he's talking in full sentences."

   Indeed, Wade has a broad smile and chats politely with adults. He spent a
recent afternoon running about the house, playing with his younger sister and
chasing their kitten, Dee, which had escaped into the front yard.

   Wade no longer has Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, a cardiac condition that
caused his heart to beat too rapidly. Because of that condition, his brain went
without oxygen for a period of time before birth, which led to brain
hemorrhaging that caused the hydrocephalus.

   Wade still travels to Orlando every six or nine months for specialized
medical care, but "it's basically just for a checkup," Mrs. Phillips said.

   Meanwhile, researchers at the Wade's Center are making steady progress.

   Scientists note that hydrocephalus is caused when there is a blockage in the
small channel through which cerebral spinal fluid drains from the brain.

   Researchers are trying to discover the characteristics of the tissues that
cause the blockage. These days, researchers are examining one gene, called TGF
Beta 1, which makes the protein material involved in the growth, or lack of
growth, of cells.

   "It's a controlling protein. It has a lot to do with a number of biological
processes" including development and differentiation of organs and tissues, Jane
Gibson said.

   Gibson is a molecular geneticist and director of the Health Research
Institute, a part of Orlando Regional Healthcare System. Wade's Center is part
of the institute.

   According to Gibson, the center's research suggests that lower levels of TGF
Beta 1 may be associated with hydrocephalus.

   "It's one observation, and it's a lead that we're going to follow up on to
see if it's got clinical applications," she said.

   Gibson said most hydrocephalus researchers concentrate on brain structure or
the makeup of cerebral spinal fluid. The Orlando team is looking at the cellular
features of the tissues that are causing the blockages.

   On a related front, Dr. Jogi Pattisapu, a pediatric neurosurgeon and the
medical director at Wade's Center, is continuing to refine a less-invasive
procedure for cleaning the shunts that hydrocephalus patients must use.

   These shunts, or tubes, are placed in the brain so that the excess fluid can
be drained into other parts of the body.

   Previously, patients underwent surgery so doctors could replace
malfunctioning or clogged shunts. The new procedure, also performed in an
operating room, allows doctors to insert a needle into the shunt and remove the
fluid. The doctor then inserts a small scope, like a camera, that allows him or
her to look inside the device and clean it as necessary.

   "It is gratifying to be able to use just a needle stick, rather than see a
child - and his or her parents - go through the pain and suffering of being
opened up," Pattisapu wrote in a hospital publication. He has been developing
the procedure for more than six years and is thought to be the only doctor
worldwide who is performing it.

   In December 1996, Wade became the third patient to undergo the procedure. He
hasn't needed a shunt operation since.

   "The research has, to us, paid off because he's having fewer surgeries," Mrs.
Phillips said.

   Although the base research is conducted in Orlando, Wade's Center takes a
multidisciplinary approach and uses the expertise of scientists at the
University of Central Florida and the University of Florida.

   Part of the team is Dr. Xingang Cai, senior research scientist for Wade's
Center.

   He said the center's plans include designing a genetic therapy to correct
hydrocephalus.

   "The eventual goal would be to treat the patient before he is born," Cai
said.

   Although news at home and in Orlando continues to be good, the Phillips
family is hardly resting easy.

   Larry Phillips, Wade's grandfather, still sponsors a golf tournament each
May, with proceeds going to Wade's Center. He owns and operates Buick and Toyota
dealerships in Leesburg and also a dealership in Ocala.

   Along with his son Rob - Wade's father - Phillips also operates an Eagle,
Buick, GMC truck dealership in Crystal River.

   April Phillips is active in a hydrocephalus support group. She also sold
chances in a recent fund-raising contest that helped raise $ 7,000 for Wade's
Center.

   A Citrus County resident won the grand prize: a vehicle donated by the
Phillips family.

   "It (the contest) really got the word out . . . through Citrus County, Orange
County and Osceola County," said Pam Gould, an official with the Orlando
Regional Healthcare System.


GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, RON THOMPSON; Wade Phillips, 6, who has hydrocephalus.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999


                             1631 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)



                    February 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Medicine milestones;

BYLINE: Researched and compiled by Vickie Chachere;

BODY:


   1020-1087 - Constantine the African introduces Greek medicine to the Western
world.

   1098 - The First Crusade to recover the Holy Land from the Muslims is delayed
by disease,  probably typhoid fever.

   1270 - Eyeglasses are invented in Italy.

   1326 - A human dissection is recorded.

   1347 - An outbreak of the bubonic plague, called the Black Death, kills a
third of the population  of Europe and Asia, an estimated 25 million people. It
is the most devastating epidemic of all  time. Travelers on merchant ships and
crusaders. Outbreaks continue through the 15th and 16th  centuries.

   1490 - Syphilis epidemic sweeps Europe.

   1507 - The first of two epidemics of smallpox kills up to a half of the
native populations of  Cuba, Haiti and Puerto Rico.

   1520 - Smallpox believed to have arrived with the Spanish explorers kills
millions of natives in  Mexico, then spreads to Central and South America,
killing thousands more. Inca ruler Huayna Capac  and 200,000 of his subjects
die, ending the Incan empire.

   1545 - French surgeon Ambroise Pare outlines basic surgical principles.

   1560 - Bubonic plague hits London, killing more than a quarter of the
population.

   1592-96 - Measles kills thousands of American Indians.

   1612 - Italian physician Sanctorius devises the medical thermometer.

   1634 - Smallpox kills 95 percent of the American Indians living along the
Connecticut River north  to Canada.

   1665 - Bubonic plague strikes London again, killing 100,000. The following
year's great fire is  credited with finally destroying the fleas, rats and
infected garbage that kept the plague active.

   1666 - British physician Thomas Sydenham popularizes the use of Jesuits'
bark, which contains  quinine, for treating malaria.

   1660 - Dutch naturalist Antonj van Leeuwenhoek develops the single-lense
microscope and goes on  to discover microorganisms.

   1785 - British physician William Withering publishes a treatise on using
digitalis, from the  foxglove plant, for treating heart failure.

   1792-99 - Yellow fever ravages the East Coast. President George Washington
and his Cabinet flee  Washington, D.C., the capital under construction, to save
themselves. Philadelphia loses 10 percent  of its population.

   1796 - A vaccination for smallpox is introduced.

   1805 - German pharmacist Friedrich SertuIrner uses morphine extracted from
opium to relieve pain.

   1810 - French physician Rene Laennec invents the stethoscope.

   1812-13 - Just 30,000 of Napoleon's 600,000 troops survive outbreaks of
typhus and dysentery.

   1817 - American dentist Anthony Plantson invents the dental plate.

   1817-23 - The first cholera pandemic originates near Calcutta, India, and
spreads throughout  Southeast Asia, Japan and China. A cold winter keeps it from
infecting Europe.

   1826-37 - The second cholera pandemic begins in China, then spreads west
across Asia and Moscow  in Europe. It is carried to the United States by ship.

   1842 - General anesthesia is used in an operation.

   1849 - The third worldwide cholera pandemic begins. Five years later, English
physician John Snow  discovers the disease is spread by contaminated water.

   1855 - Florence Nightingale introduces hygienic practices into hospitals
during the Crimean War.

   1861-65 - Three times as many Civil War soldiers fall victim to dysentery,
typhoid fever,  hepatitis, malaria, smallpox, measles and venereal diseases than
are killed in battle.

   1863-66 - The fourth cholera pandemic begins in India and sweeps around the
world westward to the  Mississippi and Ohio Valleys.

   1870 - Antiseptics are used in surgery.

   1881-96 - The fifth cholera pandemic of the century brings about a discovery
of its cause by  German physician Robert Koch. Improvements in sanitation limit
its effect on European and American  cities.

   1882 - German embryologist Walther Fleming sees the tiny threads in a cell's
nucleus. The threads  are chromosomes.

   1891 - A French doctor invents the baby incubator.

   1899 - Aspirin is developed.

   1850-1900 - French scientist Louis Pasteur and German bacteriologist Robert
Koch develop the  theory that some diseases are caused by germs.

   1895 - German physicist Wilhelm Roentgen discovers the X-ray and produces the
first X-ray of the  body.

   1901 - The A-B-O blood groups are discovered by Austrian pathologist Karl
Landsteiner.

   1906 - Dutch physiologist Willem Eintoven invents the electrocardiograph.

   1907-16 - The first major outbreak of polio kills 7,000 in the United States.

   1918 - The most lethal influenza pandemic ever sweeps the world with troops
in World War I,  killing 20 million to 40 million people. First reported in an
Army camp in Kansas, the Spanish flu  spreads to most American cities, then to
Europe and beyond. The U.S. death toll is 675,000.

   1928 - The antibacterial action of the mold penicillium is recognized. It
won't be turned into  the infection-fighting drug penicillin for another 12
years.

   1932 - German scientists Max Knoll and Ernst Ruska construct the transmission
electron  microscope. An electron beam passes through the specimen and a lens
roduces a magnified image that  is projected onto a fluorescent screen to be
viewed with special binoculars.

   1938 - The first cardiac catheterization is performed by George Peter Robb
and Israel Steinberg  in New York. A long fine tube is inserted through a large
blood vessel in the arm or leg, allowing  doctors to measure blood pressure in
the heart chambers and nearby blood vessels.

   1945 - The first kidney dialysis machine is used to treat patients with renal
failure.

   1950s - French obstetrician Fernand Lamaze develops a system of exercises,
breathing techniques  and coaching to help women through childbirth without
pain-killing drugs.

   1950s - Amniocentesis is used to test fetuses for Rh-factor. Later the test
is used for a variety  of genetic disorders.

   1951 - An oral contraceptive is developed by U.S. physicians George Pincus,
John Rock and Carl  Djerassi.

   1952 - The U.S. polio epidemic peaks with 60,000 cases.

   1953 - Dr. Jonas Edward Salk develops a vaccine for polio and tests it by
taking it himself and  giving doses to his wife and three sons. A year later, a
trial of 1.8 million children proves the  vaccine is effective.

   1957 - Fiberoptic endoscopy, the use of a lense and a light scope to examine
the body cavity, is  pioneered by Basil Hirschowitz at the University of
Michigan.

   1962 - The first beta-blocking heart drug is introduced by English chemists.
The drugs slow the  heart rate by acting on brain chemicals that instruct the
heart to beat faster and increase blood  flow.

   1962 - American biologist John Dewy Watson and English biologist Francis H.
Crick win the Nobel  prize for medicine for their explanation of how variations
in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)  determines the genetic makeup of an individual.

   1967 - South African surgeon Christiaan Barnard performs the first human
heart transplant.

   1976 - Chinese gynecologists develop a way to diagnose genetic disorders
early by taking samples  from the membrane that holds the fetus.

   1978 - Louise Brown, the world's first baby conceived in a test tube, is born
in England. Her  birth launches an ethics debate while providing new hope for
millions of infertile couples.

   1980 - The first transgenic mouse, the first transfer of genes from one
animal to another, is  produced. The discovery boosts research for a range of
diseases, from Alzheimer's disease to  obesity.

   1982 - Doctors recognize acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) as a
distinct illness.

   1983 - The first person to receive an artificial heart, Barney Clark, lives
with it 112 days.

   1984 - Doctors at Loma Linda University in California implant a baboon's
heart into Baby Fae. Th  baby lives 35 days.

   1986 - AZT is introduced as a treatment for AIDS by scientists at Burroughs
Wellcome Research  laboratories in North Carolina.

   1986 - British surgeons perform the first heart-lung-liver transplant.

   1987 - U.S. and Mexican researchers transplant fetal brain tissue into
Parkinson's disease  victims in hopes of reversing the effects of the disease.

   1987 - A South African woman gives birth to her own grandchildren when she
has her daughter's  fertilized eggs implanted in her womb.

   1988 - Harvard University researchers produce a genetically engineered mouse
that is susceptible  to breast cancer.

   1990 - A 4-year-old girl becomes the first human to receive gene therapy to
correct her immune  system.

   1993 - The first map of all 23 human chromosomes is produced at a French
research institute.

   1998 - Scottish researchers unveil Dolly, a cloned sheep created from the
cell of an adult ewe.  University of Hawaii scientists follow with a cloned
mouse and Japanese scientists clone eight  identical calvess with cells taken
from a cow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 10,
 (10) (Small photos illustrating chronology entries)

NOTES: MEDICAL MARKERS

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999


                             1632 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)



                    February 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Scientists stick doggedly to the trail of the inscrutable human
genome;

BYLINE: VICKIE CHACHERE, of The Tampa Tribune;

BODY:


   ST. PETERSBURG - Area researchers take part in the worldwide effort to
understand how genes work.

   When researchers at All Children's Hospital found a gene called TXK in a
young patient, they  were certain they had made a big discovery.

   TXK resembled another gene critical to the human immune system, but no one
had known TXK  existed. Curious about what disease might be caused by a
defective TXK, immunologist Gary Litman  and his laboratory team at All
Children's went to work.

   Litman and assistant professor Robert Haire delved into the inner workings of
the gene,  deciphering the sequence of four chemicals that dictate its functions
and charting 100,000 units of  information.

   They had no easier alternative. They couldn't randomly pick sick children to
see whether their  illnesses were being caused by a mutated TXK. They needed to
breed generations of mice with the  problem and see what happened to them.

   It took two exhausting years before they located the same gene in mice,
knocked out the healthy  one and replaced it with the defective one.

   Then they waited, "convinced there would be some profound effect" on the
mouse's immune system,  Litman said.

   There wasn't.

   "THAT'S AN EXAMPLE of how little we know," Litman said. "Here is a great
candidate . . . for a  disease gene, and nothing happens."

   So it goes in the international effort to map the human genome, the genetic
blueprint of the  body, in one of the most ambitious medical research projects
in history. Litman and his colleagues  are contributing to the effort by
focusing on the human immune system.

   From his office on the top floor of a building across the street from All
Children's, Litman  directs research in which one day of crushing frustration
may lead swiftly to another that helps  define medical history.

   At All Children's, the motivation for Litman's work is everywhere, as scores
of children suffer  from cancer, heart conditions, immune system deficiencies
and birth defects.

   Litman's group has made two findings in the genome project, which aims to
decipher the 100,000  genes that make up the 3 billion pairs of human DNA. The
project began in 1989, and has set a 2003  deadline for sequencing all human
DNA.

   Through the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy, the
federal government  supplies $ 200 million a year for the project, while private
industry pursues the same goal, hoping  to locate the genes that control
illnesses and then patent their discoveries.

   ONCE RESEARCHERS UNDERSTAND the construction of each gene and its function,
they can pinpoint  the cause of diseases. Gene therapy can then correct the
malfunctioning gene or replace it.

   Getting there means tireless laboratory work and researchers such as Litman,
who has a 10-year  $ 5 million grant from the National Institutes of Health.

   The process of isolating defective genes is much like searching for a needle
in a haystack in a  pitch-black barn. Mapping the human genome is a random
process, Litman said, complicated by the  presence of "junk DNA" that contains
no genes.

   Each body contains trillions of cells, and within most of them exists a
complete blueprint for  the body that is contained in chromosomes.

   DNA makes up the chromosomes, and genes are within the DNA. Four chemicals
make up the genes,  and scientists want to determine the sequence of those
chemicals.

   The sequence determines the species and diversity of an organism, even some
behavior. There are  similarities between species in some sequences, which is
why researchers are able to analyze how a  particular mutation affects one type
of animal and apply it to human diseases.

   So far, only 7 percent of the human genome has been mapped, meaning, Litman
said, that "it will  take another century to analyze what's going on."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999


                             1633 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)



                    February 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: New century could bring unfolding of human genes;

BYLINE: VICKIE CHACHERE, of The Tampa Tribune;

BODY:


   ST. PETERSBURG - Local scientists take part in the worldwide effort to unlock
the mysteries of  the human gene.

   When researchers at All Children's Hospital discovered a gene called TXK in a
young patient,  they were certain they had made a big discovery.

   TXK resembled another gene critical to the human immune system, but no one
knew it existed  before. Curious about what disease might be caused by a
defective TXK, immunologist Gary Litman and  his laboratory team at All
Children's went to work.

   Litman and assistant professor Robert Haire delved into the inner workings of
the genes,  deciphering the sequence of four chemicals that dictate the gene's
functions and charting out  100,000 units of information.

   They had no easier alternative. They couldn't randomly pick sick children to
see whether their  illnesses were being caused by a mutated TXK; they had to
breed generations of mice with the  problem and see what happened to them.

   It took two exhausting years before they located the same gene in mice,
knocked out the healthy  one and replaced it with the defective gene.

   Then they waited, "convinced there would be some profound effect" on the
mouse's immune system,  Litman said. "There wasn't.

   "THAT'S AN EXAMPLE of how little we know. Here is a great candidate ... for a
disease gene and  nothing happens."

   So it goes in the international effort to map the human genome, the genetic
blueprint of the  body, in one of the most ambitious medical research projects
in history. Litman and his colleagues  are contributing to the effort through
their research into the inner workings of the human immune  system.

   From his office on the top floor of a building across the street from All
Children's, Litman  directs research in which one day leads to crushing
frustration and another to the hope of medical  history. Despite the setbacks,
Litman bubbles with enthusiasm.

   At All Children's, the motivation for Litman's work is everywhere, as scores
of children suffer  from cancer, heart conditions, immune system deficiencies
and birth defects.

   LITMAN'S GROUP HAS made two findings in the genome project, which aims to
decipher the 100,000  genes that make up the 3 billion pairs of human DNA. The
project began in 1989 and has set a 2003  deadline for sequencing all human DNA.

   Through the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy, the
federal government  invests $ 200 million a year into the project while private
industry pursues the same goal, hoping  to locate the genes that control
illnesses and then patent their discoveries.

   Once researchers understand the construction of each gene and its function,
they can pinpoint  the cause of diseases. Then comes gene therapy, which means
correcting the malfunctioning gene or  replacing it.

   Getting there means tireless laboratory work and researchers such as Litman,
a scientist so  respected that the National Institutes of Health awarded him a
10-year, $ 5 million research grant.

   The process of isolating defective genes is much like searching for a needle
in a haystack in a  pitch-black barn. Scientists have a notion of what they are
looking for; the challenge is knowing  where to look in the vast human genome.

   Mapping the human genome is a completely random process, Litman said,
complicated by the  presence of "junk DNA" that contains no genes.

   Each body contains trillions of cells, and within most of them exists a
complete blueprint for  the body that is contained in chromosomes.

   DNA makes up the chromosomes; genes are within the DNA. Four chemicals make
up the genes, and  scientists want to determine the sequence of those chemicals.

   The sequence determines the species and all diversity of an organism, even
some behavior. There  are similarities between species in some sequences, which
is why researchers are able to analyze  how a particular mutation affects one
type of animal and apply it to human diseases.

   SO FAR, only 7 percent of the human genome has been mapped, meaning, Litman
said, that "it will  take another century to analyze what's going on."

   Litman's lab was the first to define the order of the DNA building blocks of
a gene called BTK,  which is responsible for a condition called X-linked
agammaglobulinemia, an antibody deficiency.  Children with this condition are
vulnerable to septicemia, a potentially fatal bacterial infection.

   The researchers set out to determine the number of different mutations. What
they found was  hundreds of different gene mutations can occur within the same
gene in different people, Litman  said.

   As if that weren't complicated enough, the scientists found that the most
severe mutation  produced a mild form of the disease and, in many cases, the
milder mutations produced the more  serious forms of the disease.

   Go figure, Litman said.

   "I don't believe I have ever accurately predicted the outcome of anything to
this day," Litman  said. "We are always surprised."

   THEIR WORK, however, makes All Children's Hospital the first with a screening
program for the  defective DNA, a test that can provide families with better
information for managing their  children's health.

   The lab also is working on two related projects to the human genome effort.
Both involve fish  and locating genome sequences and genetic mutations.

   Where this new information leads remains the great challenge for Litman and
the researchers who  work for him. They are continuing to examine the TXK gene,
believing there is an important function  to the gene that just isn't apparent
yet.

   "The really important things are not easily predicted," Litman said. "The
surprises are the  exciting part."  Vickie Chachere covers medicine and can be
reached at (813) 259-7624.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) Researcher Gary Litman sits beside a computer display at All Children's
Hospital. On the screen is a gene sequence.  FRED FOX, Tribune photo

NOTES: THE MILLENNIUM AND BEYOND

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999


                             1634 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)



                    February 7, 1999, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Medicine milestones;

BYLINE: (Vickie Chachere);

BODY:


   1020-1087 - Constantine the African introduces Greek medicine to the Western
world.

   1098 - The First Crusade to recover the Holy Land from the Muslims is delayed
by disease,  probably typhoid fever.

   1270 - Eyeglasses are invented in Italy.

   1326 - A human dissection is recorded.

   1347 - An outbreak of the bubonic plague, called the Black Death, kills a
third of the population  of Europe and Asia, an estimated 25 million people. It
is the most devastating epidemic of all  time. Travelers on merchant ships and
crusaders. Outbreaks continue through the 15th and 16th  centuries.

   1490 - Syphilis epidemic sweeps Europe.

   1507 - The first of two epidemics of smallpox kills up to a half of the
native populations of  Cuba, Haiti and Puerto Rico.

   1520 - Smallpox believed to have arrived with the Spanish explorers kills
millions of natives in  Mexico, then spreads to Central and South America,
killing thousands more. Inca ruler Huayna Capac  and 200,000 of his subjects
die, ending the Incan empire.

   1545 - French surgeon Ambroise Pare outlines basic surgical principles.

   1560 - Bubonic plague hits London, killing more than a quarter of the
population.

   1592-96 - Measles kills thousands of American Indians.

   1612 - Italian physician Sanctorius devises the medical thermometer.

   1634 - Smallpox kills 95 percent of the American Indians living along the
Connecticut River north  to Canada.

   1665 - Bubonic plague strikes London again, killing 100,000. The following
year's great fire is  credited with finally destroying the fleas, rats and
infected garbage that kept the plague active.

   1666 - British physician Thomas Sydenham popularizes the use of Jesuits'
bark, which contains  quinine, for treating malaria.

   1660 - Dutch naturalist Antonj van Leeuwenhoek develops the single-lense
microscope and goes on  to discover microorganisms.

   1785 - British physician William Withering publishes a treatise on using
digitalis, from the  foxglove plant, for treating heart failure.

   1792-99 - Yellow fever ravages the East Coast. President George Washington
and his Cabinet flee  Washington, D.C., the capital under construction, to save
themselves. Philadelphia loses 10 percent  of its population.

   1796 - A vaccination for smallpox is introduced.

   1805 - German pharmacist Friedrich SertuIrner uses morphine extracted from
opium to relieve pain.

   1810 - French physician Rene Laennec invents the stethoscope.

   1812-13 - Just 30,000 of Napoleon's 600,000 troops survive outbreaks of
typhus and dysentery.

   1817 - American dentist Anthony Plantson invents the dental plate.

   1817-23 - The first cholera pandemic originates near Calcutta, India, and
spreads throughout  Southeast Asia, Japan and China. A cold winter keeps it from
infecting Europe.

   1826-37 - The second cholera pandemic begins in China, then spreads west
across Asia and Moscow  in Europe. It is carried to the United States by ship.

   1842 - General anesthesia is used in an operation.

   1849 - The third worldwide cholera pandemic begins. Five years later, English
physician John Snow  discovers the disease is spread by contaminated water.

   1855 - Florence Nightingale introduces hygienic practices into hospitals
during the Crimean War.

   1861-65 - Three times as many Civil War soldiers fall victim to dysentery,
typhoid fever,  hepatitis, malaria, smallpox, measles and venereal diseases than
are killed in battle.

   1863-66 - The fourth cholera pandemic begins in India and sweeps around the
world westward to the  Mississippi and Ohio Valleys.

   1870 - Antiseptics are used in surgery.

   1881-96 - The fifth cholera pandemic of the century brings about a discovery
of its cause by  German physician Robert Koch. Improvements in sanitation limit
its effect on European and American  cities.

   1882 - German embryologist Walther Fleming sees the tiny threads in a cell's
nucleus. The threads  are chromosomes.

   1891 - A French doctor invents the baby incubator.

   1899 - Aspirin is developed.

   1850-1900 - French scientist Louis Pasteur and German bacteriologist Robert
Koch develop the  theory that some diseases are caused by germs.

   1895 - German physicist Wilhelm Roentgen discovers the X-ray and produces the
first X-ray of the  body.

   1901 - The A-B-O blood groups are discovered by Austrian pathologist Karl
Landsteiner.

   1906 - Dutch physiologist Willem Eintoven invents the electrocardiograph.

   1907-16 - The first major outbreak of polio kills 7,000 in the United States.

   1918 - The most lethal influenza pandemic ever sweeps the world with troops
in World War I,  killing 20 million to 40 million people. First reported in an
Army camp in Kansas, the Spanish flu  spreads to most American cities, then to
Europe and beyond. The U.S. death toll is 675,000.

   1928 - The antibacterial action of the mold penicillium is recognized. It
won't be turned into  the infection-fighting drug penicillin for another 12
years.

   1932 - German scientists Max Knoll and Ernst Ruska construct the transmission
electron  microscope. An electron beam passes through the specimen and a lens
roduces a magnified image that  is projected onto a fluorescent screen to be
viewed with special binoculars.

   1938 - The first cardiac catheterization is performed by George Peter Robb
and Israel Steinberg  in New York. A long fine tube is inserted through a large
blood vessel in the arm or leg, allowing  doctors to measure blood pressure in
the heart chambers and nearby blood vessels.

   1945 - The first kidney dialysis machine is used to treat patients with renal
failure.

   1950s - French obstetrician Fernand Lamaze develops a system of exercises,
breathing techniques  and coaching to help women through childbirth without
pain-killing drugs.

   1950s - Amniocentesis is used to test fetuses for Rh-factor. Later the test
is used for a variety  of genetic disorders.

   1951 - An oral contraceptive is developed by U.S. physicians George Pincus,
John Rock and Carl  Djerassi.

   1952 - The U.S. polio epidemic peaks with 60,000 cases.

   1953 - Dr. Jonas Edward Salk develops a vaccine for polio and tests it by
taking it himself and  giving doses to his wife and three sons. A year later, a
trial of 1.8 million children proves the  vaccine is effective.

   1957 - Fiberoptic endoscopy, the use of a lense and a light scope to examine
the body cavity, is  pioneered by Basil Hirschowitz at the University of
Michigan.

   1962 - The first beta-blocking heart drug is introduced by English chemists.
The drugs slow the  heart rate by acting on brain chemicals that instruct the
heart to beat faster and increase blood  flow.

   1962 - American biologist John Dewy Watson and English biologist Francis H.
Crick win the Nobel  prize for medicine for their explanation of how variations
in DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)  determines the genetic makeup of an individual.

   1967 - South African surgeon Christiaan Barnard performs the first human
heart transplant.

   1976 - Chinese gynecologists develop a way to diagnose genetic disorders
early by taking samples  from the membrane that holds the fetus.

   1978 - Louise Brown, the world's first baby conceived in a test tube, is born
in England. Her  birth launches an ethics debate while providing new hope for
millions of infertile couples.

   1980 - The first transgenic mouse, the first transfer of genes from one
animal to another, is  produced. The discovery boosts research for a range of
diseases, from Alzheimer's disease to  obesity.

   1982 - Doctors recognize acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) as a
distinct illness.

   1983 - The first person to receive an artificial heart, Barney Clark, lives
with it 112 days.

   1984 - Doctors at Loma Linda University in California implant a baboon's
heart into Baby Fae. Th  baby lives 35 days.

   1986 - AZT is introduced as a treatment for AIDS by scientists at Burroughs
Wellcome Research  laboratories in North Carolina.

   1986 - British surgeons perform the first heart-lung-liver transplant.

   1987 - U.S. and Mexican researchers transplant fetal brain tissue into
Parkinson's disease  victims in hopes of reversing the effects of the disease.

   1987 - A South African woman gives birth to her own grandchildren when she
has her daughter's  fertilized eggs implanted in her womb.

   1988 - Harvard University researchers produce a genetically engineered mouse
that is susceptible  to breast cancer.

   1990 - A 4-year-old girl becomes the first human to receive gene therapy to
correct her immune  system.

   1993 - The first map of all 23 human chromosomes is produced at a French
research institute.

   1998 - Scottish researchers unveil Dolly, a cloned sheep created from the
cell of an adult ewe.  University of Hawaii scientists follow with a cloned
mouse and Japanese scientists clone eight  identical calvess with cells taken
from a cow.  Researched and compiled by Vickie Chachere

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 11 (1C),
 (Sheep)

NOTES: THE MILLENNIUM AND BEYOND

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999


                             1635 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times



              February 5, 1999, FRIDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Sit back and get fit;
Drugs could mimic effects of exercise

SOURCE: DON SHRUBSHELL; ASSOCIATED PRESS

BYLINE: BY JOHN FAUBER

BODY:


   Is exercise on its way to becoming obsolete?

   Don't cancel your health club membership, but at an accelerating rate,
researchers are announcing breakthroughs that someday may lead to drugs and
therapies that mimic the beneficial effects of exercise.

   All you would have to do is sit back and get fit.

   In August, researchers in Texas said their recent work could lead to the
development of a drug that might mimic the health-promoting effects of aerobic
exercise such as running or swimming in sedentary people.

   Since then, there have been at least two more developments:

   In December, Science News reported on a new type of gene therapy that appears
to halt the age-related loss of muscle tissue, at least in mice. In humans, the
loss can amount to 30 percent of a person's muscle tissue between his or her 30s
and 70s.

   So far, the only "therapy" that can slow the loss is strength training.

   However, the Science News article reported on researchers from the University
of Pennsylvania School of Medicine who have inserted DNA for a hormonelike
substance known as insulin growth factor 1, in a virus, which then was injected
into the right legs of young, middle-aged and old mice, which were kept
sedentary for up to nine months.

   The results were startling.

   There was roughly 15 percent more muscle mass and strength in the right leg
in the younger mice. In the older mice, the effect was even more pronounced: 19
percent more mass and 27 percent more strength in the treated leg.

   A few weeks earlier, another group of researchers at the University of
Mississippi said that a new type of fat-burning drugs could revolutionize the
treatment of obesity in humans by producing a metabolic effect similar to
exercise.

   The drugs have been shown to break down fat and expend energy by mimicking
the effects of the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine, two hormones that
prepare the body for strenuous exercise.

   A pill form of the drugs could be on the market in the next five to 10 years,
said Dennis Feller, chairman and professor of pharmacology at the university's
School of Pharmacy.

   In another development last August, researchers at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas said they have discovered a genetic switch
that tells muscles how to behave.

   The scientists found a molecular pathway that tells muscle fiber to be either
the so-called fast-twitch strength muscle found in weight lifters and sprinters
or the slow-twitch endurance muscle found in aerobic exercisers such as distance
runners.

   "When people go jogging, molecular events happen in the muscle they are
exercising that both enhance their capability to exercise further and improve
their health," researcher R. Sanders Williams said. "We believe it is possible
to design a drug which would have this effect."

   The pace of all these and other breakthroughs doesn't mean that the treadmill
and barbell will become passe. Initially, the developments will be used to help
the truly ailing, people with heart disease, muscular dystrophy or diabetes and
the old and frail.

   But one wonders if, years down the road, healthy people will have a
dramatically different approach to exercise.

   "Genetics are promising us things," Leon Charash, a child neurologist at
Cornell University Medical College and medical advisor to the Muscular Dystrophy
Association, said in an interview.

   However, he said along with the promise of these developments there needs to
be some skepticism. For instance, with the mice leg muscle experiment one big
question is, will it work in humans?

   For the moment, it's probably best to keep doing things the old-fashioned
way.

   Ten years down the road, if exercise drugs replace exercise, you'll be that
much ahead of the game.

GRAPHIC: Relax. In the future, building muscles and burning fat could be as easy
as watching a baseball game from the comfort of a sofa. Researchers think new
drugs and therapies will be able to offer all the benefits of strength training
and aerobic exercise without any of the sweat.  ; SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999


                             1636 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 Journal of Commerce, Inc.
                              Journal of Commerce

                          February 3, 1999, Wednesday

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Medical-research monopoly

BYLINE: BY DANIEL S. GREENBERG

BODY:

   In this season of sour politics, medical research is thriving as Washington's
sole object of bipartisan devotion. Little attention, however, has been given to
unwelcome but troubling questions that lurk around the enthusiasm for spending
more on the health sciences.

   Can the government organization that manages the money, the National
Institutes of Health, make good use of another big increase? Or could ways be
found to wring better results from the bonanza?

   More money is destined for medical research. Last year, President Clinton
proposed a record-breaking 8 percent increase for the institutes of health; the
Congress voted for 15 percent, raising the budget by $2 billion, to a total of
$15.6 billion, amid pledges to double the organization's funding in five years.

   For next year, another 15 percent increase was recently deemed essential by
the lobby for scientists who depend on that money, the 56,000-member Federation
of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

   In budget growth, the NIH now leads the government, powered by a rising
population in the disease-prone elderly years, by public demands for treatments
and cures, and by promising developments on many scientific fronts.

   Lobbies for patients and scientists have the easiest sell on Capitol Hill.

   As the world's leading financier of research in universities and hospitals,
and in its own laboratories, the NIH has underwritten modern medical science and
many of its revolutionary findings. It's a great success story.

   But that still leaves questions of whether the results are commensurate with
the wealth entrusted to the NIH and whether it can effectively handle huge
additional sums.

   In biomedical circles, it's generally agreed that management and scientific
quality have greatly improved since Nobel laureate Harold Varmus became director
of the institutes four years ago.

   But the unfortunate fact is that pre-Varmus, the NIH had lost much of its
scientific luster, despite self-congratulatory assurances that rigorous quality
control was built into the system.

   Reviews initiated by Mr. Varmus reported that some long-running inhouse
research programs were inbred and ineffective. Several research programs,
including much-touted gene therapy, were found to be in a rut, but surviving
without change nonetheless, at considerable expense.

   Mr. Varmus reversed a worrisome brain drain from the NIH and introduced many
overdue reforms, including plans announced recently to speed the procedures for
picking projects and delivering money to waiting scientists.

   But even assuming that the good work will continue when Mr. Varmus leaves in
the next couple of years, questions about the NIH and the money surge invite
examination.

   Departing from Congress's worshipful hands-off policy toward the NIH, Sen.
Pete Domenici, R-N.M., chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, has begun
looking into the relatively narrow question of whether the organization can
manage and productively spend another $2 billion.

   A bigger question, however, concerns the wisdom of giving one government
agency the world's largest bankroll for medical research.

   No other field of science is so dependent on one source of money. Chemistry
and physics, for example, are supported by the National Science Foundation, the
Pentagon, NASA, and the Department of Energy. If one of them is shortsighted or
clique-bound in rejecting a scientist seeking money for a promising project - as
happens - there's a chance with the others.

   Far less so with, let's say, cancer research, for which the NIH provides the
overwhelming majority of support. If federal agencies could be prosecuted for
monopoly control, the NIH would be in the dock a la Microsoft.

   There is a way out, however, that can accommodate the public and political
demand for expanding medical research without reinforcing the NIH's monopoly
position. Keep the NIH and let it grow with inflation. But, with most of the new
funds, launch a new and separate money-dispensing government agency for the
health sciences.

   Call it NIH II, and let it start fresh with a new cast of managers and
procedures - especially in speedy electronic processing of grant applications,
which the cumbersome NIH I has been ineffectively fumbling with for years.

   The old NIH is burdened with heavy, multi-year financial commitments that
limit innovations, even with all that additional money. Eventually, NIH II will
be similarly burdened. But in its startup years, it might be scientifically
nimble and adventurous - qualities that, by wide account, are lacking in the
current system for supporting medical research.

   What's to be done in a decade, when NIH II inevitably slumps into
bureaucratic senility? Abolish it and start NIH III.

   Copyright 1999, Daniel S. Greenberg

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999


                             1637 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                           February 2, 1999, Tuesday

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: STUDY: GENE THERAPY MAY OFFER A CURE FOR CIRRHOSIS

BYLINE: CATHY BURKE

BODY:

   A new study shows a cure for cirrhosis of the liver in lab rats - raising new
hopes to cure a disease that kills 25,000 Americans a year.

   In this month's journal Nature Medicine, a Japanese researcher reported rats
with cirrhosis who were treated weekly with the gene for human "hepatocyte
growth factor," or HGF, were free of cirrhosis when removed from the study 50
days later.

   All 13 untreated rats in the experiment died within 45 days.

   The gene therapy made the rats pump out high quantities of HGF, which
promotes liver regeneration while reducing cell death. That cleared up serious
cirrhosis in the animals, researchers reported.

   Previous work has shown HGF can promote liver regeneration and suppress cell
death, while blocking a second protein that encourages scar formation, the
researchers noted.

   One expert said the study breakthrough comes at a crucial time.

   In the United States, hepatitis C, a virus discovered in 1990, affects 4
million people, "and is a truly terrible critical health problem," said Dr.
Lewis Teperman, director of transplants at New York University Medical School.

   "In 10 years, there's a good possibility that 1 million of those people will
go on to develop cirrhosis," Teperman said. "So this research could certainly,
if successful, stem the tide."

   He said there are 4,500 to 5,000 liver transplants a year - far too few to
deal with an explosion in cirrhosis.

   But he said there needs to be "caution" at this point.

   "For one thing, it's an experiment in rats," Teperman pointed out, adding
that the genetic material given to the rats was enclosed in fatty bubbles, a
method that may not work in humans.

   "I'm delighted with the research, even though I'm cautious," he said.

   Cirrhosis devastates the liver with widespread scar tissue. It's caused most
often by alcohol abuse, but hepatitis C and other diseases can also create it.

   Severe cases cause liver failure and can require a transplant.

   About 25,000 Americans die from cirrhosis every year, according to the
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.

   The study was conducted by Dr. Jiro Fujimoto of the Hyogo College of Medicine
in Nishinomiya, Japan, and others.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999


                             1638 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                        February 1, 1999 Monday, BULLDOG

SECTION: TOWN NEWS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: TWO ACTIVE VOLUNTEERS RECEIVE SERVICE AWARDS FROM UNITED WAY

BYLINE: MARLENE CLARK

BODY:

   Rosario Rizzo Jr. of Portland and Ralph Strong Jr.of East Hampton have been
tireless workers for Middlesex United Way, and each received a Community Service
Award, the agency's top award for outstanding service.

   Both men work at Pratt & Whitney in Middletown.

   I met Rizzo when United Way officials announced the agency had met its goal
of raising $2 million. He was beaming the whole night. Rizzo has volunteered for
United Way since he started working at Pratt 23 years ago. In 1989, he was
Middletown's site coordinator. He was elected to United Way's board of directors
in 1989, became an executive team member for Pratt in 1993 and was president of
United Way in 1996.  He's helped Pratt raise more than $3 million for the
agency.

   Strong began volunteer service at United Way in 1980, when he joined the
central allocations committee, which recommends where the money goes. He was on
the board of directors from 1982 to 1988, then returned to the allocations
committee.  He also is active in Pratt's machinists union, where he often speaks
about the importance of United Way and its work in the community.

   *

   Area residents have been honored by the Nature Conservancy for their help in
protecting the state's natural resources.

   Robert Rickenback and Helen Kuzinaof Middletown received White Oak Awards and
Norman Zimmerof Meriden received a certificate of special recognition.

   Rickenback helps maintain the conservancy's trails, takes part in work
parties and volunteers in the Shepaug Dam bald eagle project in Southbury, where
volunteers monitor activity and help visitors understand the importance of this
endangered bird.

   Kuzina has worked on several fund-raising and land acquisition projects. She
also helps clear trails and takes part in the bald eagle watch and the piping
plover monitoring program at Griswold Point.

   Zimmer has helped to educate the public about the importance of saving the
state's trap rock ridges.

   *

   It's time to start breaking in those walking shoes because the 1999 March of
Dimes WalkAmerica will be here before you know it. The annual event is scheduled
April 25 at 14 locations across the state. Each walk will be about 8 miles long.
Money raised will be for the benefit of the March of Dimes' ongoing battle
against birth defects.

   Bill Ryczek, vice president at Liberty Bank in Middletown, and Don Gates,
principal at Portland High School, are cochairmen of the Middletown walk. It'll
start and end at Vinal Regional Vocational-Technical High School.

   Old Saybrook walkers don't have a chairman, but a very dedicated group of
volunteers keeps that program stepping lively. Lin Dillon is the unofficial
liaison between the agency and Old Saybrook walkers. The Old Saybrook course
traverses the shoreline and is the prettiest in the state, said Sondra
Dellaripa, community director for Connecticut March of Dimes in Hartford.

   The New London/Waterford walk will be headed by Waterford's first selectman,
Paul Suprin, a vice president at Liberty Bank in New London. This beautiful
course begins and ends at Harkness Memorial Park.

   In February, Middlesex Hospital will host a CEO breakfast to encourage local
company officials to hop on the leather express. Wesleyan University Professor
Stephen DeVoto will be the featured speaker. In 1998, DeVoto received a two-
year $100,000 grant for gene therapy research from the March of Dimes.  A date
has not been set for the breakfast.

   Individuals can walk on their own, but the March of Dimes officials encourage
folks to organize walking teams -- five or more walkers -- to take advantage of
some special benefits and awards.

   More information is available by calling the following numbers.

   People interested in forming a walking team can call (800) 446-9255.

   Information about the Middletown walk is available by calling Ryczek at (860)
344-7275 or Gates at (860) 342-1720.

   Information about the Old Saybrook walk is available by calling Dillon at
(860) 388-0124.

   Information about the Waterford/New London Walk is available by calling
Suprin at (860) 443-3509.

   Information about the CEO breakfast in Middletown is available by calling
(860) 290-5440.

COLUMN: HERE 'N THERE

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999


                             1639 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                     February 1, 1999, Monday, Home Edition

SECTION: Health; Part S; Page 1; View Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: TAKE HEART;
 NEW THERAPIES MEET SUCCESS AS MORE IS LEARNED ABOUT THE WHYS OF HEART FAILURE.

BYLINE: ROSIE MESTEL, TIMES HEALTH WRITER

BODY:


   More than 200 years ago, a British country doctor was treating a woman
suffering from "dropsy," a sickness in which fluid builds up in the tissues of
the body. The outlook, he knew, was grim. There was nothing he could do.

   Imagine his surprise when he reexamined the woman a few weeks later and
discovered her symptoms had disappeared. A local herbalist, he learned, had
given her a potion containing foxglove leaves to drink.

   The doctor published his studies on the leaves--and an ancient folk remedy
entered mainstream medical practice.

   Today, the woman's diagnosis would be congestive heart failure, a condition
in which the heart is too weak to efficiently pump blood through the body,
causing fatigue and shortness of breath as fluid builds up in the lungs, as well
as swelling in the body's extremities. Doctors now know that those leaves the
woman ate contained a medley of chemicals, including one called digoxin, which
help the heart beat more powerfully.

   Amazingly, through all this time digoxin has remained the state-of-the-art
treatment for people with congestive heart failure, along with diuretics that
help kidneys pump all that extra fluid from the body. The drugs treat the
symptoms of the malady. They improve people's quality of life. But they don't
stop the heart from progressively weakening, and they don't help patients live
longer.

   Now this picture is changing. Medical researchers are learning more about why
heart failure happens, and why it progresses so relentlessly. By mixing that
knowledge with modern technology, they're dreaming up new therapies and
mechanical devices that could one day change what it means to hear those
frightening words "congestive heart failure" in the doctor's office.

   Last month, UCLA cardiologists held a one-day symposium to discuss new
insights into this malady, which contributes to 260,000 deaths in America every
year. Here's a look at some of the new and future therapies they discussed.

   * ACE Inhibitors. These newer drugs protect the heart by interfering with a
hormone, angiotensin, that is made in greater amounts in people with heart
failure. Angiotensin narrows blood vessels, helping maintain blood pressure.
This may be good in the short term--but causes great harm over time.

   "It means that the heart is pumping against a brick wall, which weakens it
further," says Dr. Michele Hamilton, co-director of the UCLA clinical heart
failure program. Not only that, but high levels of angiotensin can make heart
cells bloat up, and weaken, even die.

   Lowering blood pressure with ACE inhibitors gives the heart a chance to
recover--and ACE inhibitors, unlike digoxin, do appear to prolong life in heart
failure patients.

   * Beta-blockers. These drugs have been used to treat hypertension for
decades. But until recently, doctors would have never considered them for heart
failure patients. Beta-blockers, after all, make the heart beat slower--surely
the last thing a person with a weakened heart would want.

   The body, in fact, tries to do just the opposite. As blood pressure drops, it
cranks out hormones called adrenaline and noradrenaline to spur the heart to
beat faster.

   But that is tough on the heart. And just as ACE inhibitors give the heart a
break, so do beta-blockers if they're administered with care. Recent studies
have shown that beta-blockers also prolong life in heart failure patients--and
combining ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers helps survival even more.

   * Fighting TNF. As heart failure progresses, muscle cells start to, in
effect, commit suicide. This self-destruction happens, scientists suspect, when
a stressed-out heart produces killer chemicals such as one called TNF.

   Since TNF damages heart cells in other ways, too, it's no wonder that
scientists are working to hamstring it somehow. The rationale: Inject patients
with a protein that will stick to it and stop it from doing its evil. Such a
TNF-busting drug is already approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis,
in which TNF is known to play a role. Clinical trials on anti-TNF therapy for
heart failure are underway.

   * Growth Hormone. "Growth hormone is what makes your heart bigger and
stronger as you grow," Hamilton says. "The question is, if you treat a thin,
weak heart with growth hormone, can you make it thicker and stronger?"

   A simple enough question, but the studies so far have physicians scratching
their heads. One found that hearts did get thicker over several months of
therapy, but these beefier hearts didn't work better. Another found that hearts
pumped better and the patients' symptoms improved. Bottom line: No one yet knows
what the potential of growth hormone will be.

   * Laser Therapy. With this method, little lasers are used to zap the heart
with little holes in an effort to stop heart failure from developing.

   Here's the historical rationale: Certain reptiles don't use coronary arteries
to supply their hearts with blood--they use little channels, instead. So
couldn't laser-induced channels help a human heart, if the coronary artery is
blocked and can't be unblocked with surgery?

   In fact, this method does help heart disease patients, studies show, reducing
chest pains and enabling better performance on treadmills. But it's probably not
because of forming channels, researchers say. More likely, the drastic treatment
does its good by triggering growth of brand-new blood vessels.

   * Gene Therapy. Why not grow new blood vessels without burning holes through
the heart? That's the reasoning of some scientists who injected a blood
vessel-inducing gene called VEG-F into legs of some people with poor
circulation, and into hearts with blocked coronaries. The result: new blood
vessels and an easing of symptoms in the patients.

   * Growing New Heart Cells. It would be great if we could grow new heart cells
every time we lost a few. "But the heart muscle's much like brain tissue: You're
born with a certain number of cells, and they don't have the capacity to
divide," says Dr. Robb MacLellan, assistant professor in the cardiovascular
research labs at UCLA. Scientists are trying to get past that barrier, using a
medley of approaches, including gene therapy and fetal heart cell grafts, in
animals, for now.


   *

   The list of procedures and devices goes on and on. There is a kind of "tummy
tuck" surgery to reduce the size of grotesquely inflated hearts, which don't
beat as well. There are "assist devices" that are implanted in the abdomen as
stopgaps to help hearts pump while people wait for transplants. Such devices may
one day be implanted permanently in people who aren't transplant candidates.

   "But I think the most exciting thing is the potential for an artificial
heart; there really is a big need," says Dr. Hillel Laks, director of the heart
transplant program at UCLA's School of Medicine. At any particular time, there
are an estimated 60,000 people who could benefit from a transplant, he says. Yet
there are only enough available hearts for 2,400 transplants a year.

   Tests on one artificial heart--electric, quiet, totally encased in the chest
cavity--are soon to begin at three locations, including UCLA, which plans its
first transplant (into a calf) later this month. Implants into people could
begin as soon as the year 2000.

   All in all, says Dr. Gregg Fonarow, director of the Ahmanson-UCLA
Cardiomyopathy Center, "we've had major advances in our understanding, and we've
got a number of new avenues of research that look very promising. Add that to
the new treatments that we already know help patients live longer and better,
and it's a very exciting time."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999


                             1640 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          February 1, 1999 Monday All

SECTION: Health and Science Pg. 5

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Scientists create gene that's controlled by drug
 Three-part system is first step in fighting large class of inherited diseases

BYLINE: ROBERT COOKE
SO
: Newsday

BODY:

   By designing a special gene that can be turned on and off as needed, and then
making it work in live animals, researchers in Pennsylvania say they have taken
a vital step toward real gene therapy.

   According to James Wilso n and his colleagues at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, they have specifically tailored a genetic
system so it can be controlled from outside the animal, simply by giving doses
of a drug, rapamycin.

   The three-part system has already been shown to work in mice and monkeys, and
has kept on working for months. This suggests it will probably work in humans
suffering from serious genetic diseases.

   "This is an important step toward controlled gene therapy," Wils on said in
an interview. "We think it will expand the scope of gene therapy, and make it
safer, because we have a way to turn it off."

   W. French Anderson, who has pioneered research on gene therapy, said Wilson's
recent report in the journ al Science "is very exciting. It's very nice work.
It's the first I'm aware of with in vivo regulated gene expression."

   In other words, it's the first time that an extra gene has been inserted into
healthy live animals that is fully control lable, its activity capable of being
turned up, down, or on and off.

   Anderson, at the University of Southern California Medical School, in Los
Angeles, said the fact that Wilson's system has been made to work, and has kept
on working, in mo nkeys "is very significant, because it means it should work
clinically" in patients.

   The goal of such research is to find ways to defeat a large class of
inherited diseases that have essentially been unapproachable. Inherited maladies
such as sickle-cell anemia, hemophilia, and Lesch-Nyhan syndrome have resisted
treatments and cures because they are caused by gene mutations, genetic errors,
that cannot yet be corrected. As a rule, such inherited diseases cannot even be
treated.  A few genetic diseases, such as PKU (phenylketonuria), can be
ameliorated by manipulating a child's diet to avoid severe mental retardation.
Hemophilia can be controlled, somewhat, by injections of blood-clotting factors.
And some inborn ailments can even be cured by drastic measures such as bone
marrow transplants or liver transplants.

   In the encouraging new experiments, Wilson and his colleagues used two kinds
of genes, one which makes the protein they want to supply to the body ,
erythropoietin (EPO), and another that is needed to turn the first gene on,
activating it. The genes are engineered into separate viruses, which are then
mixed together and injected into the animals' muscles.

   Even after the viruses have be en injected, and the genes have gone into
muscle cells, however, the system remains completely dormant until the animal is
given rapamycin. The drug causes the two genes to work together, so they begin
making EPO. If the researchers stop supplying r apamycin, the gene system stops
working.

   Their new gene control system works so well, Wilson said, that the amount of
EPO being made can be precisely controlled by the amount of rapamycin given. EPO
is a hormone-like factor that stimulates p roduction of red blood cells. It is
already a commercial product used to treat anemia.

   Rapamycin is already a marketed drug, used mainly for immune suppression. But
the doses used in the animal experiments are so low that normal immune fu nction
is not affected, Wilson said.

   "When we gave rapamycin, it induced the gene and did everything we wanted it
to do," Wilson said. When they stopped giving rapamycin, the gene stopped making
EPO. "And when we gave more of the drug, it e xpressed more of the protein,"
Wilson said.

   The virus vehicles used to carry the new genes into muscle cells are
engineered versions of the benign AAV adeno-associated virus which causes no
human diseases, Wilson said. Numerous other res earch teams, including Anderson
in California, are working to tailor AAV for similar gene therapy experiments.


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999


                             1641 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)



              February 01, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Breakthrough Moffitt research tackles cancer at its origins

BYLINE: SUE LANDRY

DATELINE: TAMPA

BODY:


   This has been a banner week for the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research
Institute, where two teams of researchers have had major discoveries about the
origins of cancer published in prestigious cancer journals.

   In both discoveries, researchers identified the critical elements that cause
cells to grow out of control and become cancerous. One team worked with a bone
cancer called myeloma, while the other team's discovery, published Sunday,
involved colon cancer.

   The findings are prime examples of the new direction cancer researchers have
taken in recent years to find new treatments for the disease.

   Past cancer drug research started with drugs themselves. Researchers would
test a wide range of chemicals on cancer cell lines. Those that had an effect
were then tested further to see if they could be used in people.

   The approach has produced chemotherapy treatments that can kill cancer cells
but also are highly toxic and can affect healthy tissue.

   Now, the genetic revolution has brought the new option of designing far more
specific drugs. Researchers are concentrating on discovering the genetic causes
of specific cancers with the hope that fine-tuned drugs can be developed to turn
off the cancer cascade at the molecular level.

   "The new way is called drug discovery. Programs are now funded by the
National Cancer Institute very heavily to identify these new molecular targets
and then direct drugs to hit those targets based on the molecular structure of
the targets," said Dr. Timothy Yeatman, a Moffitt surgical oncologist and cancer
researcher.

   Yeatman's research on colon cancer was published Sunday in the prestigious
international journal Nature Genetics.

   Yeatman and Moffitt colleagues discovered a genetic mutation involved in
about 12 percent of advanced cases of colon cancer. The mutation occurs in a
gene called SRC that was first hypothesized in 1909 by Peyton Rous, who showed
that a virus could cause tumors in chickens. The virus Rous discovered affects a
gene in chickens similar to the human SRC gene.

   "We found a mutation ... that activates the gene," Yeatman said. "When
mutated, the growth switch is always turned on, so you can have a cell that
doesn't know when to stop dividing and can't stop dividing, and that's the
definition of cancer."

   The discovery could lead to drugs able to block the process and turn the
switch back off, although such drugs are expected to take years to develop,
Yeatman said.

   Although the specific mutation Yeatman discovered is present only in about 12
percent of advanced colon cancers, drugs based on the discovery could treat a
higher percentage of colon cancer cases, Yeatman said. That's because numerous
mutations like the one Yeatman discovered could be responsible for turning on
the gene, and it's likely a drug would affect more than one, he said.

   Another discovery was made by Moffitt researchers Richard Jove and Dr. Bill
Dalton, whose research on myeloma, a rare and devastating bone cancer, was
published Friday in the Journal of Immunity. Dalton and Jove discovered that a
protein nicknamed STAT3 turns off the normal process of cells that causes them
to die.

   Although myeloma is rare, Dalton and Jove  think the discovery could have
implications for other cancers, including breast cancer, which may involve a
similar process.

   Dalton said components of the process had been discovered before, but he and
Jove were able to show how the process works and identify STAT3 as a critical
link.

   "What we did was put the components together and define the circuitry,"
Dalton said. "The implication is if you cut off the circuitry, the cells will
spontaneously die or become more sensitive to therapy like chemotherapy."

   The discovery also could lead to a specific drug that targets STAT3 or a gene
therapy treatment, he said.

   "What we have to do is figure out how to turn it off," Dalton said.


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999


                             1642 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times



              January 31, 1999, SUNDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: LI; HEART BEAT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: New tools in heart disease battle

BYLINE: Stephen Devries

BODY:


   Last year was a bonanza in the battle against heart disease. Powerful tools
were developed for both diagnosis and treatment. The following is a list of the
year's top advances:

   Breakthroughs in prevention.

   Many people consider cholesterol reduction a priority only for those with
heart symptoms. A large study published in 1998 confirmed the benefits for those
without known heart disease. The study of more than 6,500 apparently healthy
people showed that treating even mildly elevated fat levels sliced the risk of a
serious heart problem by nearly 40 percent.

   Intriguing new evidence has proven that cholesterol treatment also reduces
the risk of stroke. In 1998, the Food and Drug Administration extended the
indication for two established cholesterol drugs, pravastatin and simvastatin,
to include prevention of stroke.

   The medicinal value of food.

   Dietary advice regarding cholesterol generally has focused on foods to avoid.
New research indicates that certain foods should be encouraged because they are
natural cholesterol cutters. Examples include soluble fiber (found in oat bran,
oat meal and beans) and soy protein (tofu, certain "veggie" burgers, soy
drinks).  Also, a new margarine scheduled for the U.S. market this year lowers
cholesterol by blocking the absorption of fat from the diet. (There will be more
details in a future column.)

   Heightened awareness that heart disease strikes women.

   Educational efforts are slowly dissolving the long-standing myth that women
are protected from heart disease. Still, more work remains. Recent surveys
indicate that women continue to rate breast cancer as their No. 1 health threat,
despite heart disease being a far more frequent killer.

   Wider use of stents.

   Stents are small tubes thread into the heart to prop open narrowed arteries.
Despite the generally good results, the use of stents has been limited by their
bulk and limited maneuverability. A family of sleek, new stents that was
introduced last year will allow more people to receive this important treatment.

   Gene therapy to restore blood flow.

   Breakthrough research using gene therapy to grow new blood vessels was
published last year. Although this research is in the very early stages, it
holds promise as a new option for patients with clogged arteries.

   New surgical approach to relieve heart pain.

   Another way to develop new blood vessels is to drill them. A new surgical
procedure uses a laser beam to create small channels in the heart. This can help
patients who do not benefit from conventional treatment.

   Less-invasive techniques for bypass surgery.

   Bypass surgery remains the treatment of choice for many patients with severe
coronary disease. Recent efforts have focused on limiting the size of the
incision. New instruments and techniques might allow the entire bypass procedure
to be performed through small buttonhole incisions.

   Dr. Stephen Devries is director of the Heart Center at the University of
Illinois at Chicago. He welcomes readers' questions on heart health and disease.
E-mail him at Devries MD@aol.com or write to Heart Beat in care of the Sunday
Editor, Chicago Sun-Times, 401 N. Wabash, Chicago 60611.

   Heart Beat is intended for general informational purposes only, and is not
intended to serve as the basis for decisions in your own health care. All health
care decisions should be made only after consultation with your health care
professional.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999


                             1643 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1999 The Detroit News
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Detroit News

                     January 31, 1999 Sunday Final Edition

SECTION: FRONT; Photo 1: Terry Monkaba, seated by Adam, has guided her first
child, Ben, at drums, through four heart surgeries because of a genetic
disorder. She says she still would have had her second child if tests showed he
also had the disease. David Coates / The Detroit News Photo 2: Jennifer Murto
sorts sperm in Dr. Ronald Zack's Lathrup Village office, where 90 percent of sex
selection requests are for social reasons -- not disease prevention. David
Coates / The Detroit News; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: Unnatural selection

BODY:

   Doctors pushing the boundaries of medicine now can produce a fantasy that
science fiction writers have woven for decades.

   Only 21 years after Louise Brown became the first test tube baby, geneticists
are on the verge of an even broader fertility revolution. By looking at newly
fertilized eggs in a lab dish, scientists can help parents pick some of their
babies' characteristics before pregnancy.

   Couples ultimately may be able to order traits they want -- from babies free
of abnormalities to ones with blue eyes or brown hair.

   This raises unsettling ethical questions and dark images from the past:

   On the threshold of this new era, Detroit's Hutzel Hospital will offer
couples the ability to discard fertilized eggs while they still are in a lab
dish to avoid inherited diseases that have haunted their families.

   "There will some day be a genetic surgeon who will be every bit as precise as
a surgeon with a knife," predicted Dr. Mark Evans of Hutzel Hospital in Detroit.
"It'll be like buying cable TV: Do you want the basic programing or the various
premiums?"

   That idea bothers Susan Fettes, 41, of Ann Arbor.

   "I kind of cringe when the idea of pregnancy selection comes up," said
Fettes, whose 12-year-old daughter has a genetic disorder that required her to
be fed by a tube as an infant. "It wasn't that long ago that they were doing
away with handicapped people."

   At Evans' lab in Hutzel, fertilized eggs will be screened for hereditary
disorders before a pregnancy -- a $13,000 procedure generally not covered by
insurance.

   One of the trickiest questions for parents and their doctors is just what is
considered an intolerable defect.

   "How do you decide?" asked Diane Rimar of Oak Park, president of the Metro
Detroit chapter of Little People of America. "Your child may have a handicap and
still be a perfectly good kid."

   A dwarf, for example, can expect to lead a full life, said Rimar, a dwarf and
bank employee who has an average-size daughter. Deciding to terminate a
pregnancy just because the child may be different would be tough, she said,
"unless you're really stuck on yourself."

   Maria LaFond-Visscher of Bozeman, Mont., has similar concerns.

   "You are opening a real Pandora's box here," said the 35-year-old leader of a
national support group for parents who decide to carry severely retarded
children to term rather than aborting them.

   "The future is crashing down on us quickly. It's every parent's dream to have
a perfect child, but you can see where this is going."

   LaFond-Visscher, who grew up on a Montana sheep farm, sees Americans as too
reliant on high-tech medicine.

   "Listen, nature is rough," she said. "It's survival of the fittest. How do
you think we got here?"

   Dr. Evans, who is the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at the Detroit
Medical Center's Hutzel Hospital, said he hopes to limit the practice of genetic
screening to looking for inherited disease. His lab soon will begin offering
pre-implantation genetic diagnosis.

   Two or three of every 100 live births have a serious physical or mental
handicap caused by a genetic defect or problems during fetal development.

   But beyond screening for serious handicaps, nobody knows how the new tools
will be used. Evans acknowledges that any new technology tends to create its own
spreading demand, much as cellular telephones did.

   Consequently, most observers believe the screening will spread to less severe
cases.

   Prenatal gender selection, for instance, began as a way to prevent genetic
diseases particular to boys or girls. Now it's performed 90 percent of the time
at private clinics for purely social reasons, such as ensuring a first-born
child is a boy.

   Parents who wish to use pre-implantation genetic diagnosis soon will be in a
position to define which lives are worth living, without the emotional strain of
a midterm abortion, Michigan State University philosopher Leonard Fleck said.
For many of them, discarding an eight-cell egg in the early stage of development
will be far less difficult.

   Disability activist groups worry about where the trend will lead if parents
have a relatively unemotional way in advance to choose which pregnancies to
carry to full-term.

   "The disabled community is very concerned about the use of disability as a
criterion for selecting embryos," said Chicago lawyer Diane Coleman, executive
director of the national disabled rights group Not Dead Yet.

   Coleman, who works at a social service agency, says genetic screening allows
parents to decide not to have a child if it is detected the child has a genetic
condition like Coleman's spinal muscular atrophy.

   "We know how doctors portray our lives to our families." she said. "People
think we cost too much."

   Physicians who developed the techniques used to break the chain of inherited
diseases say the heartbreak families face is real.

   "My message to the critics is: Get a life, guys. You should go talk to the
patients who have a genetic disease," said Dr. Jamie Grifo of New York
University, who has assisted in 35 successful pregnancies through
pre-implantation genetic screening.

   "They've never sat across the table from these people and heard their
stories. They don't know what it's like to raise a kid with a genetic disease.
And besides, it's none of their business."

   Terry Monkaba knows what it's like. The Troy mother has guided her son Ben,
12, through four heart surgeries, countless hours of physical therapy and
regular trips to Baton Rouge, La., for back treatments. He has a genetic
disorder called Williams syndrome which causes heart defects, curvature of the
spine and mental retardation.

   "We've been through an awful lot," she said.

   Monkaba paused for a long while when asked if, had she been given a choice,
she would have chosen not to have Ben.

   "I'd be really torn. I understand where you may not be willing to bring that
child into the world," Monkaba said. "It's a quality of life question."

   Ben wears a brace for his curved spine and one of his lungs is paralyzed.
"But I look at my son and I think, 'He is very happy.' He's not mad at the world
for doing this to him," Monkaba said. "I've learned a lot from my son, like
turning the other cheek in the face of adversity."

   Children with Williams syndrome "aren't going to be doctors or lawyers," she
added. "They work at Wendy's, but they're happy."

   For her second pregnancy, Monkaba underwent extensive ultrasound testing to
make sure the baby didn't have the characteristic heart defect of Williams
syndrome.

   "I wanted to go ahead and have that reassurance, but I wouldn't have done
anything about it" if her son Adam did have the disease, she said.

   For Monkaba, screening genes before implantation would be acceptable to
prevent the most severe conditions. "But how do you stop it there?"

   Slippery slope

   Preventing the birth of a child who will suffer and die very young "is a
worthy goal that virtually any parent would accept," MSU's Fleck said. "But
things get hazy pretty quickly when you move away from that line."

   Jill Fischer, a genetic counselor at Spectrum Health in Grand Rapids, worked
with pre-implantation genetic screening at a previous job.

   "When we first started with Tay-Sachs syndrome, the kid's going to be dead in
a couple of years (because of the effects of the disorder). I didn't have a
problem with that," she explained.

   But as more genes are identified and testing procedures become more powerful,
parents might weed out signs of possible problems -- not actual diseases,
Fischer said.

   "There's a big difference between dying at 18 months and 'at age 40 the child
will start to have symptoms,' " she said.

   But parents apparently have a powerful appetite to know, and some may be
willing to change the child's future if they can. Working in conservative west
Michigan, Fischer often is asked if there is a way to detect homosexuality in
fetal genes. "And there are people who want to do (genetic testing) just to see
if it's a boy or a girl."

   For an upcoming study, University of Pennsylvania bioethicist Glenn McGee has
been surveying couples going through infertility treatment about their attitudes
toward designer-baby issues.

   "Couples are astonishingly willing to change their future offspring, right up
to the moment when you give them any sort of real risk to a known potential
human being," he said.

   Fischer has seen the same sort of attitude through her genetic counseling.
Couples don't feel midterm abortion is the same thing as picking between
embryos, "with the embryo being outside the mother's body and not attached to
the womb," she said.

   But many couples become uncomfortable when the discussion turns to disposing
of embryos that have nothing wrong, she added.

   Anti-abortion activists say pre-implantation screening is wrong for everybody
and shouldn't be an option, even for Tay-Sachs syndrome or other childhood
killers. To them, eight cells in a dish is a human life and cannot be discarded
for any reason, even though there's only a 30-percent chance of a successful
pregnancy.

   "It's the camel's nose under the tent -- pick your cliche," said Ed Rivet,
legislative director for Right to Life of Michigan.

   "You can start with the couple who had the child with a fatal illness. That
can be very compelling emotionally. But you know they will eventually apply this
to any other genetic disorder that the parent didn't want."

   There's plenty of room to argue about what kinds of birth defects parents
will try to eliminate, but it seems highly unlikely to NYU's Grifo that people
would use genetic screening for vanity reasons, like picking hair or eye color.

   Harvesting eggs for fertilization and testing is uncomfortable, results in
pregnancy only about a third of the time and costs more than $12,000 each time,
including the genetic testing.

   "Why would they go through all this for a so-called designer baby?" Grifo
said.

   But, as has been shown in reproductive science, technology changes.

   The first test tube baby -- Louise Brown, born in 1978 in England through in
vitro fertilization -- was a controversial long shot two decades ago. Now, at
least 15,000 babies are born each year in the United States through the help of
a $2-billion in vitro fertilization industry.

   "I'm willing to bet that in the not-too-distant future, we can ... delete
specific genes in an eight-cell embryo and replace them with good ones," Fleck
said.

   If doctors and scientists get to that point, it will be because of market
demand, said Arthur Caplan, a leading bioethicist at the University of
Pennsylvania. "Everything is done by what the parents want. It's me, me, me.

   "If we don't get into this debate in a serious way, then people of means will
design their children. We haven't had any discussion about what's best for the
kids."

   What is disease? If genes indicate a child would have a 40-percent chance of
developing colon cancer at some age, should that disqualify her from being born?
Would short stature be considered a disease?

   Who benefits? Many families won't be able to have a $13,000 procedure to
avoid an inherited condition. Will that create a handicapped underclass?

   Who decides? How would screening be regulated? Could insurers refuse to cover
some pregnancies, or deny coverage for conditions known before birth?

   What's ahead? Is gene therapy on fertilized eggs to alter traits the next
logical step?

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002


                             1644 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 January 31, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Page 17; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Books From The Times

BODY:

   The fifth and sixth volumes in a series of collected reporting from The
Times's weekly science section are now available from Lyons Press as THE SCIENCE
TIMES BOOK OF INSECTS and THE SCIENCE TIMES BOOK OF GENETICS ($25 each). Both
edited by Nicholas Wade, they deal with recent discoveries and developments
about the pyramid of creepy crawlies underlying the bees and butterflies
everybody loves, and the microscopic arrangements of chemicals that make bugs
and humans at least superficially different. The insect volume contains an
entire section on the rituals of insect courtship (often much more
disappointing, for one party, than the worst of human marriages), examines the
structural principles of insect wings and the organization of spider webs, and
anoints the scarab beetle as the earth's indispensable recycler of animal waste.
Reports on the amazing performances of life's genetic materials include
exploration of the future of gene therapy, the possible applicability of
genetics to life extension, a look at of the architecture of DNA itself and the
original report on the first known successful cloning of an adult mammal, the
case of the lamb known as Dolly -- published, it may be frightening or
exhilarating to observe, just two years ago next month.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999


                             1645 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     January 29, 1999, Friday ,City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. E11

LENGTH: 61 words

HEADLINE: Biotechnolgy, Pharmaceuticals;
WHO'S WHAT WHERE;
RECENT APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS

BODY:

   Kenneth L. Rice Jr., vice president, finance and administration, June R.
Salvesen, vice president, development operations, Pentose Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
Cambridge; Christopher F. Nicodemus, senior vice president, medical and
regulatory affairs, AltaRex Corp., Waltham; William J. Fallon, vice president,
manufacturing, Transkaryotic Therapies Inc., Cambridge.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999


                             1646 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                    January 29, 1999 Friday, 2 WEST CENTRAL

SECTION: TOWN NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: IN 100TH ANNIVERSARY BASH, HOSPITAL CELEBRATES CENTURY OF CARING

BYLINE: BARBARA THOMAS; Courant Staff Writer

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN --

BODY:

   As at any birthday party, there were balloons and goody bags, cake and
coffee. But at New Britain General Hospital's 100th birthday bash Thursday
night, there was something else in the air -- the community spirit that has made
the facility what it is today.

   More than 400 people -- hospital employees, volunteers, board and auxiliary
members and members of the general community -- attended a party marking the
start of a year of events celebrating the hospital's 100th anniversary. All who
attended were given name tags in the form of blue ribbons that said "NBGH Hero."

   "I'm impressed with the spirit of this community as it relates to this
hospital," said one of the hospital's biggest heroes, Angelo Tomasso, who, along
with his family, has been a generous benefactor.

   The formal part of the party's program was moderated by Frank Fraprie,
retired chief operating officer. It included speeches, a slide show depicting
the hospital's history, and music by the New Britain High School Madrigals.

   "You deserve a grand celebration for a century of caring," said Lt. Gov. Jodi
Rell, who also read a proclamation from Gov.  John G. Rowland.

   Hospital President Laurence Tanner put his own spin on the Goldilocks story,
saying that if she had to go out and choose a hospital to stay in, she would
pick New Britain General because it's not too big, and not too small.

   "It's big enough to provide an array of high-quality services, yet small
enough that it hasn't lost the important ingredient of how to treat patients,"
he said. "We've been able to survive all the changes in the delivery of care
because of the commitment of all who are here tonight."

   Dr. Robert Lapkin, chief of staff, posed a question. "I wonder what the
physicians of 1899 would think at the technological marvels of medicine today,"
he said. He cited such advances as CAT scans, MRIs, and gene therapy.

   Lapkin also wondered if the doctors of yore would be at a loss to explain why
those who are "practicing" the medical profession today are insurance company
executives and actuaries. He then offered his hope that managed care will
someday soon be a brief blip in memory.

   At the conclusion of the party, attendees headed outdoors to see the lighting
of electric candles on top of a giant cake on the overhang of the hospital's
main entrance, and to sing "Happy Birthday."

   The birthday celebrants included Constance Moore, a 1935 graduate of the
hospital's nursing school.

   "It was a wonderful party; they did a fabulous job," Moore said. She also
reflected on the years since her graduation.

   "I can't believe all the changes," she said.

   When the party was over Tanner said: "It was a nice start to what we hope
will be a happy, positive year. How this party was organized -- it was all done
by volunteers.  And that's how we were started 100 years ago."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999


                             1647 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1999 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            January 29, 1999 Friday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1:2,3,4,5,7,8; B-3:1; B-2:6

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Researchers report success in transferring human genes

BYLINE: David E. Graham, STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   In experiments that may have bearing on treating blood disorders such as
hemophilia, sickle-cell anemia and even leukemia, La Jolla scientists have
successfully delivered genetically altered human cells to mice, where the cells
thrived. They hope in the future to do something similar in people to deliver
beneficial genes that could supply missing products to correct blood disorders
or help the immune system fight disease. In experiments with mice reported today
in the journal Science, researchers found that the transferred gene existed in
subsequent generations of cells for as long as five months, which suggests the
gene might be expected to survive and be productive, said Salk Institute
scientist Inder Verma. Only about 10 percent of the cells arising from the cells
transferred to the mice actually showed the presence of the gene scientists had
attempted to introduce, Verma said, adding that even that amount can provide a
therapeutic benefit.

   "It's plenty in terms of this purpose," Verma said. The gene was placed into
stem cells, which have wide use because they mature to become blood cells and
cells that make up the immune system. Working with scientists at The Scripps
Research Institute, Salk researchers delivered the gene into the stem cells
using a sanitized version of the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS. Verma has been developing the virus in recent years because of
its ability to penetrate cells efficiently to deliver the gene into cells.

   The HIV can infect cells but not cause harm, Verma said, because the genes
that allow the virus to reproduce and destroy cells have been removed. Verma's
lab is taking the next step and using the technique in dogs to test a gene
therapy for hemophilia, a disorder involving poor clotting of the blood.

   In this case, Verma wants to transfer a gene for a clotting agent. Those
experiments are expected to conclude within a year, after which, Verma said, he
hopes the approach will be ready for tests in people. Meanwhile, he said he
hopes other labs will use the same HIV capsule, which scientists call a vector,
as a tool for introducing genes into cells to treat other diseases. "The vector
has a general utility," Verma said.

   He thinks it could be used, for example, to introduce genetically boosted
stem cells that would enhance immune function so that some cancer patients could
better withstand radiation treatment. Even though stringent efforts have been
made to strip the virus of its virulent qualities, many scientists still urge
caution in working with HIV. "It's an emotional and scientific question," Verma
acknowledged. Producers of the vector, for example, must be careful that the
purification process is thorough and that no intact virus is included in the
batches scientists use in gene therapy. The lack of a good vector has slowed the
promise of gene therapy, a powerful form of medicine.

   Once in a cell, the additional gene nestles among the cell's natural
complement of genes. In the experiments with mice reported today, scientists
introduced a gene for a green fluorescent protein that provides no therapeutic
benefit but acts as a marker that scientists can readily identify to learn how
effectively the gene-delivery technique is working. Once the HIV vector had
delivered the gene into the stem cells, the cells were introduced into the mice.

   Stem cells give rise to other generations of stem cells, and also mature into
blood and immune cells, leading scientists to hope the technique might provide a
continuing source of therapeutic genes. In order to test the human cell model in
the animals, the scientists relied on mice that had been engineered with weak
immune systems that would not attack the human cells. Other authors of the paper
include Hiroyuki Miyoshi of the Salk Institute, and Kent Smith, Donald Mosier
and Bruce Torbett, all of The Scripps Research Institute.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1648 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    January 29, 1999, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Moffitt researchers make breakthrough cancer discovery;

BYLINE: VICKIE CHACHERE, of The Tampa Tribune;

BODY:


   TAMPA - Scientists at H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute
unveil a major  breakthrough in the understanding of a fierce bone cancer.

   A team at H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute has discovered
the chemical  triggers that cause a lethal bone cancer and believe their
findings might lead to a better  understanding of other forms of the disease.

   The discovery, published in today's issue of the medical journal Immunity,
lays the groundwork  for potential drugs and gene therapy to treat multiple
myeloma, a cancer that mostly strikes people  in their 60s and is particularly
deadly because it is resistant to chemotherapy.

   Potential treatments are years off, but the discovery nonetheless is being
hailed in the  scientific community as a significant breakthrough in the
understanding of myeloma.

   Lead researchers Bill Dalton and Richard Jove made their discovery following
two years of  research at Moffitt into the inner workings of myeloma cells,
unmasking the chemical triggers that  cause the cells to continually reproduce,
forming tumors.

   "We have identified the enemy at the molecular level," Jove said.

   The doctors have tested their theory on mice and on human cancer cells in
their laboratories.

   Jove said the findings have implications for breast cancer, which appears to
have some of the  same chemical triggers as myeloma. Further studies are being
conducted to confirm a connection.

   Myeloma is a disorder of the plasma cells in which they reproduce to such
high numbers that they  destroy normal bone tissue. The disease causes intense
pain, damages bone and can make the body  susceptible to infections because the
plasma disrupts the immune system.

   About 13,000 people are diagnosed with the disease nationwide each year.
There is no known  cause, genetic or environmental, for the disease.

   Myeloma patients live an average of four years after diagnosis. Doctors treat
the cancer with  bone marrow transplants and chemotherapy now, but this type of
cancer is resistant to the drugs,  the doctors said.

   Dalton and Jove have been making presentations across the nation to educate
other scientists  about their discovery. They also will present their findings
before a national audience at the  American Association for Cancer Research
meeting in April in Philadelphia.

   The doctors describe their new insight into myeloma this way: Cells have a
circuit board inside  of them that tells them when to grow and divide and when
to die. Healthy cells are programmed to  destroy themselves if damaged.

   Until now, scientists didn't know what caused the bone marrow cells of people
with myeloma to  keep growing or why the cells didn't self-destruct.

   "What Bill and I have discovered is some of the molecules in that circuit
board and where it  short-circuits," Jove said. "Now that we know what keeps the
cell from dying, we can intervene with  drugs."

   "It's like flipping a switch on or off," Dalton said. "You don't see normal
circuitry in cancer  cells."

   The researchers said a protein called Interleukin-6 binds to the cell's
surface and then  transmits a signal that activates a protein, Stat3. Stat
proteins are chemicals that send  instructions to the DNA in the cell's nucleus.
In this case, Stat3 tells the cell to grow and  divide and not self-destruct.

   The discovery comes about, in part, because of Moffitt's rising stature among
cancer centers  that is drawing top scientists to its research labs and
treatment center.

   Jove was a University of Michigan researcher who specialized in understanding
the chemical  signals that tell cells how to behave and was delving into the
chemical triggers of tumors. Dalton  was exploring the causes of myeloma at the
University of Arizona, attempting to understand why  chemotherapy was
ineffective in fighting the disease.

   They met at Moffitt after Jove was recruited in 1995 and Dalton in 1997. Soon
after meeting,  they joined forces and put together a team of 12 researchers.
Leading the laboratory experiments  were Robyn Catlett-Falcone and Terry
Landowski.

   The researchers hope their findings will lead to more-effective treatments
for myeloma patients.

   The chemotherapy drugs currently used also destroy healthy cells. Now that
the chemical process  that brings on the disease is known, Moffitt researchers
hope to target new treatments to precisely  interrupt the harmful chemical
reaction while not damaging healthy cells.

   "What we are trying to do is find the silver bullet," Jove said.

   There will be several options for exploration, Jove and Dalton said.

   A third Moffitt doctor, Said Sebti, is attempting to develop drugs to correct
the malfunctioning  circuitry. And fellow Moffitt researcher Hua Yu is exploring
a gene therapy that would return the  malfunctioning genes to normal.

   Dalton and Jove cautioned that any treatment based on their findings is still
years off. Still,  Dalton said he has briefed his patients on the new findings.

   "It's important for them to know there's hope for the future, that we're
doing something about  this," he said.  Vickie Chachere can be reached at (813)
259-7624.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Bill Dalton and Richard Jove hope their team's discovery will help control
cancer cells like these projected on a screen behind them.  JAY NOLAN, Tribune
photo

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1999


                             1649 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1999 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.The Plain Dealer,
                               January 28, 1999
                       The Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                     January 28, 1999 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: NEW TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES WILL BE LEADERS, EDI CHIEF SAYS

BYLINE: By MARCUS GLEISSER; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

BODY:

   Cleveland is developing emerging technology companies, the kinds that are
going to be the major economic engines of tomorrow, said Diann M. Rucki, newly
named president of Enterprise Development Inc.

   EDI is a nonprofit subsidiary of Case Western Reserve University and a
cooperative venture with the university's Weatherhead School of Management. Its
helps start-up technology-based enterprises in Northeast Ohio.

   "We are talking about companies here like Athersys Inc. that created the
first artificial human chromosome, and Copernicus Therapeutics Inc.,
specializing in gene therapy," she said. "We have some early stage but very
solid companies working in genetics, the whole biotechnology arena and another
producing chip technology actuators to control devices that will revolutionize
industry."

   To encourage development, EDI offers incubator programs, facilities such as
conference rooms, access to needed equipment at no or low cost, courses for
entrepreneurs taught by ex perts, and links with venture capital opportunities
and private investors.

   Rucki assumed the EDI presidency Jan. 1. She had been EDI's senior vice
president of operations and executive director of the Edison Technology
Incubator. She started her career with EDI in 1985 as a graduate student intern
for its predecessor organization, the Center for Venture Development.

   She joined EDI full time in 1988 as president of its Edison Technology
Incubator, offering laboratory and office space and management assistance to
start-up companies.

   Rucki, who has an MBA from the Weatherhead school, has also been a speech
consultant and was administrative manager of a start-up company, Bear Computer
Products in Cleveland, a distributor of computer peripherals.

   "I began to see how different business was for an entrepreneurial company
from the experience I had within a large corporation," she said.

   High-tech entrepreneurialism will play a growing role in Northeast Ohio's
economy as we enter the 21st century, said Kim Cameron, Weatherhead school dean:
"Having Diann at the helm will assure that EDI continues to play a leading role
in developing the region's entrepreneurial culture."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO CREDIT; Diann M. Rucki

COLUMN: COMPANIES & PEOPLE

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999


                             1650 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1999 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           January 28, 1999 Thursday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-11:2,3,4,5,7,8; B-9:1,6

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: A thriving monopoly in medical research

BYLINE: Daniel S. Greenberg, GREENBERG is a visiting scholar in the history of
science, medicine and technology at Johns Hopkins University, where he is
writing a book on post-Cold War science politics.

BODY:

   In this season of sour politics, medical research is thriving as Washington's
sole object of bipartisan devotion.

   Little attention, however, has been given to unwelcome but troubling
questions that lurk around the enthusiasm for spending more on the health
sciences. Can the government organization that manages the money, the National
Institutes of Health, make good use of another big increase?

   Or could ways be found to wring better results from the bonanza? More money
is destined for medical research.

   Last year, the President proposed a record-breaking 8 percent increase for
NIH; Congress voted for 15 percent, raising the budget by $2 billion, to a total
of $15.6 billion, amid pledges to double NIH funding in five years.

   For next year, another 15 percent increase was recently deemed essential by
the lobby for scientists who depend on that money, the 56,000-member Federation
of American Societies for Experimental Biology. In budget growth, NIH now leads
the government, powered by a rising population in the disease-prone elderly
years, public demands for treatments and cures and promising developments on
many scientific fronts. Lobbies for patients and scientists have the easiest
sell on Capitol Hill. As the world's leading financier of research in
universities and hospitals, and in its own laboratories, NIH has underwritten
modern medical science and many of its revolutionary findings.

   It's a great success story.

   But that still leaves questions of whether the results are commensurate with
the wealth entrusted to NIH and whether it can effectively handle huge
additional sums. In biomedical circles, it's generally agreed that management
and scientific quality have greatly improved since Nobel laureate Harold Varmus
became director four years ago.

   But the unfortunate fact is that pre-Varmus, NIH had lost much of its
scientific luster, despite self-congratulatory assurances that rigorous quality
control was built into the system. Reviews initiated by Varmus reported that
some long-running in-house research programs were inbred and ineffective.

   Several research programs, including much-touted gene therapy, were found to
be in a rut, but surviving without change nonetheless, at considerable expense.
Varmus reversed a worrisome brain drain from NIH and introduced many overdue
reforms, including plans announced recently to speed the procedures for picking
projects and delivering money to waiting scientists. But even assuming that the
good work will continue when Varmus leaves in the next couple of years,
questions about NIH and the money surge invite examination.

   Departing from Congress's worshipful hands-off policy toward NIH, Senator
Pete Domenici, R-N.M., chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, has begun
looking into the relatively narrow question of whether it can manage and
productively spend another $2 billion.

   A bigger question, however, concerns the wisdom of giving one government
agency the world's largest bankroll for medical research. No other field of
science is so dependent on one source of money.

   Chemistry and physics, for example, are supported by the National Science
Foundation, the Pentagon, NASA and the Department of Energy.

   If one of them is shortsighted or clique-bound in rejecting a scientist
seeking money for a promising project -- as happens -- there's a chance with the
others.

   Far less so with, let's say, cancer research, for which NIH provides the
overwhelming majority of support.

   If federal agencies could be prosecuted for monopoly control, NIH would be in
the dock a la Microsoft. There is a way out, however, that can accommodate the
public and political demand for expanding medical research without reinforcing
NIH's monopoly position.

   Keep NIH and let it grow with inflation.

   But, with most of the new funds, launch a new and separate money-dispensing
government agency for the health sciences.

   Call it NIH II, and let it start fresh with a new cast of managers and
procedures -- especially in speedy electronic processing of grant applications,
which the cumbersome NIH I has been ineffectively fumbling with for years. The
old NIH is burdened with heavy, multiyear financial commitments that limit
innovations, even with all that additional money.

   Eventually, NIH II will be similarly burdened.

   But in its start-up years, it might be scientifically nimble and adventurous
-- qualities that, by wide account, are lacking in the current system for
supporting medical research. What's to be done in a decade, when NIH II
inevitably slumps into bureaucratic senility?

   Abolish it and start NIH III.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1651 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   January 27, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03; FINDINGS

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: FINDINGS

BODY:


   Parkinson's Tied to Environmental Factors

   Most cases of Parkinson's disease are not due to a genetic defect but are
caused by other factors that are probably environmental, according to a landmark
study of more than 17,000 twins released yesterday.

   The environmental factors are unknown but may include chemical exposures,
diet and smoking -- the last of which paradoxically seems to lessen the risk of
developing Parkinson's.

   At least 1 million Americans have Parkinson's, Tanner said, making it second
only to Alzheimer's disease in frequency as a degenerative disease of the brain
and nerves. Parkinson causes slow deterioration of the nerves' ability to
control the muscles. It usually starts with small tremors, then progresses to a
shuffling gait and increasing weakness. There is no cure, and drug therapy tends
to lose effectiveness over time.

   Caroline M. Tanner of the Parkinson's Institute in Sunnyvale, Calif., and
colleagues tracked down more than 17,000 men enrolled in a World War II-era twin
registry.

   The researchers found 161 twin pairs in which at least one brother had
Parkinson's disease and data on the pairs was complete. Among the 161 sets,
there were 16 in which Parkinson's had struck before age 50. Of the four sets of
identical twins, who have exactly the same genetic material, both brothers had
Parkinson's. Among the 12 fraternal pairs, who share only half their genetic
material, there were only two in which both brothers had Parkinson's, according
to a report in today's Journal of the American Medical Association.

   Tanner said environmental factors most likely to play a role in typical
Parkinson's include exposure to chemicals such as pesticides and herbicides,
diet and tobacco smoking.

   Fitness Through Casual Exercise

   Couch potatoes can improve their heart and lung fitness just as much by doing
everyday activities like raking leaves and climbing stairs as they would working
up a sweat in a gym, researchers say.

   The authors of two studies, published in today's Journal of the American
Medical Association, say their findings are good news for anyone who doesn't
exercise because they don't have time, don't like heavy workouts or can't get to
a gym.

   One study followed 235 men and women, ages 35 to 60, who were divided into
two groups and monitored over two years. One group spent 20 to 60 minutes
vigorously exercising -- swimming or biking, for example -- up to five days a
week. The other incorporated 30 minutes a day of the so-called "lifestyle"
exercise.

   Researchers found that, at the end of six months, both groups had similar --
and significant -- improvements in cholesterol ratios, blood pressure and body
fat percentages. However, the lifestyle group had to exercise three times longer
than those at the gym to burn the same amount of calories.

   Gene Therapy for Heart Disease

   Doctors reported more progress in using gene therapy to treat heart disease
yesterday, saying 19 out of 20 patients they tried it on reported less chest
pain.

   The team at St. Elizabeth's Hospital at Tufts University in Boston said the
patients grew tiny new blood vessels on the surfaces of their hearts after
having new genes injected directly into their hearts. The genes produce a
protein called VEGF, which stands for vascular endothelial growth factor and
stimulates new blood vessel formation.

   The same team reported earlier success with the VEGF gene. In November, they
said 16 patients had safely undergone the procedure, and they have added another
four since.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999


                             1652 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1999 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            January 26, 1999 Tuesday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-2:7,8; B-1:3; B-2:1,2

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: UCSD would use genes on Alzheimer's

BYLINE: David E. Graham, STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: ANAHEIM

BODY:

   ANAHEIM -- UCSD scientists are proposing to use novel gene therapy techniques
in an attempt to treat people with Alzheimer's disease. In long-term tests in
mice and monkeys, the delivery of therapeutic genes to the brain has preserved
brain cells of the type that are typically lost to Alzheimer's, UCSD
neuroscientist Mark Tuszynski said. If the proposed initial trials in people are
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the tests stand to be the
first use of gene therapy for the disease. Initial trials in eight patients
primarily would test the therapy for safety, although scientists hope the tests
might also convey some benefit. A simple sample of skin cells taken from each
patient would be armed with a gene for nerve growth factor, and the cells would
be injected deep into the brain through a needle.

   Tuszynski hopes the cells will churn out the growth factor to nourish
vulnerable cells in that region. That strategy has succeeded in the rhesus
monkeys, he said, adding: "We can prevent the death and degeneration of a type
of cell that dies in Alzheimer's disease." He discussed the proposal here
yesterday at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science. Alzheimer's disease, characterized by memory loss and mental
disorientation, affects about 4 million people in the United States, although
that number is projected to increase as the population ages. Doctors have
pursued a number of paths for treating the disease, which causes damage in
sensitive areas of the brain.

   Drugs added to the bloodstream do not always enter the brain efficiently,
leading Tuszynski to pursue the direct delivery of therapeutic genes to the
brain. He uses a leukemia retrovirus that is stripped of its harmful genetic
material to carry the gene into the skin cells, which are later transplanted to
the brain. He hopes that, once delivered into the brain, the genes will provide
the nourishing growth factor for a year or longer before another injection is
required. Tuszynski said he plans to seek FDA permission within months, once
paperwork for the trial is complete.

   He said he expects that approval might come within six months.

   Trials would be overseen by UCSD, he said. Success in animals make human
trials the next logical test of the technique, he added.

   Genes delivered to mice have proved effective in keeping cells in damaged
regions of the animal's brain alive for as long as 18 months, and the same has
occurred in the rhesus monkeys for as long as eight months, he said. In the
experiments, scientists damaged a region of the animals' brains called the
fornix in a manner that mimicked the deterioration caused by Alzheimer's. The
damage affects activity of the hippocampus, a region important for learning and
memory. In experiments with mice, scientists also were able to boost the
function of the brain cells, by increasing the activity of crucial
neurotransmitters, chemicals that allow brain cells to communicate. Future
techniques for delivering the therapeutic genes promise to be less intrusive
because they might not require the needle injection into the brain, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1653 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 25, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS URGE THAT GENETICS RHETORIC BE COOLED;
GROUP WARNS THAT HYPERBOLE OVER NEW TECHNOLOGY COULD HARM DEBATE - AND;
PATIENTS

BYLINE: William Allen; Post-Dispatch Science Writer

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, CALIF.

BODY:


   Scientists and the media must tone down the rhetoric about advances in human
genetics or public anxiety will hamper rational debate about the benefits of
using new gene technology, leading researchers said Sunday.

   Some scientists have helped fuel public distrust of gene research with
"hyperbole and inflated claims," said Dr. Charles Epstein, a geneticist at the
University of California at San Francisco.

   And some writers and producers have irresponsibly raised "fearful specters"
about cloning, the Human Genome Project and other revolutionary aspects of
genetics, Epstein said.

   The effect has been to "make rational discussion difficult, if not
impossible, and to polarize debates that need consensus," he said. It also
raises false hopes for patients and their families.

   Epstein made the comments at the annual meeting of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, the nation's largest general scientific group.

   At issue is the rapid advance of human genome research - both to decipher the
code of heredity embedded in our genes and to apply that knowledge to conquer
many of the estimated 4,000 genetic diseases in humans.

   Researchers at Washington University in St. Louis are among the world leaders
in this research, including the Human Genome Project to decipher the code.

   The speed of genetic discoveries has triggered deep public concern about the
medical, ethical, religious and legal issues surrounding how new gene
technologies will be used.

   For example, many fear that humans eventually will be cloned and that
geneticists will "play God."

   Epstein gave the media "reasonably good marks" in explaining the complexities
of the science and the issues it raises.

But magazine covers, headlines and graphics often mislead, he said.

   "The tendency very often seems to be to emphasize that which is dangerous or
frightening . . . and, given the rapidly emerging power of modern genetic
technology, fearful prospects are easily engendered," he said.

   Epstein showed magazine covers depicting humans ensnared in strands of
genetic material and a Garden of Eden scene with the snake replaced by the
chemical building block of genes - the DNA molecule.

   All this suggests "something malevolent about DNA, that genetic knowledge is
dangerous, that it will enslave us," he said.

   The public also recoils at the "yuck" factor in such reports, said Ted
Peters, a theologian at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif.
That's a "gut repugnance" about the possibility that our individuality and
dignity is threatened by the new genetic knowledge, Peters said.

   Scientists need to "cool the rhetoric and make sure the science behind an
announcement is proper," said Dr. Theodore Friedmann, a geneticist at the
University of California at San Diego.

   Sometimes universities and corporate sponsors of gene research are behind the
rhetoric, he said.

   "We need a constant, careful, thoughtful transmission of knowledge to the
public," Friedmann said.

   Epstein and Friedmann called on scientists to heed a 1995 report by a
national panel of scientists that assessed research on gene therapy.

   Put simply, that field of research aims to cure diseases by using genetic
techniques to override defective genes in the body.

   Reports in the past decade about the field's impending success haven't
materialized.

   The panel concluded that "overzealous representation" of gene therapy
"threatens confidence in the field and will inevitably lead to disappointment."

   Of more concern is "the possibility that patients, their families and health
providers may make unwise decisions regarding treatment alternatives, holding
out for cures that they mistakenly believe are 'just around the corner,' " it
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999


                             1654 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 25, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: 3RD GENE MIGHT AFFECT SMOKING ADDICTION, STUDY SAYS;
'SMALL PIECE OF PUZZLE' COULD LEAD TO TREATMENTS FOR QUITTING CIGARETTES;
DESIGN OF RESEARCH IS CRITICIZED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Scientists have identified another gene that might affect how vulnerable a
person is to cigarette addiction. The finding may help researchers develop new
ways to stop smoking.

   Having a certain form of the gene makes it easier to kick the habit, or
perhaps to avoid getting hooked in the first place, two studies suggest. But
that apparent influence is modest.

   "This is just one small piece of the puzzle" of what influences smoking
behavior, said psychologist Caryn Lerman, an author of one of the studies.

   Lerman is director of cancer genetics at the Lombardi Cancer Center of
Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. Her work and a follow-up
study by Dr. Dean Hamer of the National Cancer Institute and colleagues appear
in this month's issue of the journal Health Psychology.

   It's at least the third gene to show evidence of an effect on smoking.
Scientists hope that by understanding such biological influences, they can
tailor treatments to particular smokers and get hints for finding better
therapies.

   Dr. Ernest P. Noble, a psychiatry professor at the University of California,
Los Angeles, who studies the genetics of smoking, said the evidence that the
gene influences smoking isn't very strong, though he added, "I believe it is a
real effect."

   But Ken Kidd, a Yale University geneticist who has studied the genetic marker
used by the researchers, criticized the design of the studies and analysis of
the results.

"I do not accept their conclusions," he said.

   Nicotine causes a surge of a substance called dopamine between certain brain
cells. That feels good to the brain, so it encourages addiction. Brain cells use
squirts of dopamine to communicate, and the gene in the new research tells brain
cells how to make a structure called a trans porter that mops the chemical up.

Why would one version of this gene discourage nicotine addiction?

   Lerman and colleagues theorize that it leads to a less efficient dopamine
transporter, which leaves more dopamine between the brain cells. That might
reduce a person's desire to pump up dopamine levels by using nicotine, they
suggest.

   Hamer's team found that people with the apparently protective version of the
gene scored lower than other people on novelty-seeking, a personality trait that
includes impulsiveness and an interest in experiencing new sensations.
Novelty-seeking might promote addiction, so scoring lower on this trait might
also be protective, they said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999


                             1655 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               THE BALTIMORE SUN

                        January 24, 1999, Sunday ,FINAL

SECTION: BUSINESS ,13K

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Businesses face need to raise funding; Experts see consolidation this
year for industry

BYLINE: Sun Staff

BODY:

   For Maryland's booming biotechnology sector, 1999 should be a watershed year
as a select number of companies either turn profitable or move experimental
drugs and diagnostics into pivotal mid- and late-stage human trials.

    "Maryland's biotechnology industry should experience a lot of maturing this
year," said Martha J. Connolly, biotechnology industry analyst for the state
Department of Business and Economic Development.

    But with that maturing will come hurdles, and a key one for some Maryland
companies will be raising money for operations in a financing climate that has
turned cold for biotechnology nationwide.

    Connolly expects that climate to result in some additional consolidations in
Maryland's biotechnology industry that mirror the marriage of Gene Logic Inc., a
Gaithersburg genomics company, and Oncormed Inc., a financially struggling
genetic testing business.

    The two joined forces last year to create a powerhouse in a fast-emerging
field known as pharmaco-genomics, which attempts to decipher the genetic basis
of diseases and help drug companies determine which new compounds might best
address those roots.

    When it comes to profitability, the Maryland biotechnology company on
everyone's radar screen this year is MedImmune Inc. of Gaithersburg.

    The reason: Synagis, the company's powerful new vaccine for respiratory
syncytial virus, or RSV, has just entered its first "season" of sales. Analysts
expect the drug to be a blockbuster, lifting MedImmune into the black and
top-tier status in the industry. Analysts estimate the drug for infants could
generate $350 million a year in U.S. sales.

    MedImmune's success is also a sign that Maryland's vaccine industry is
poised for growth, says Connolly.

    Another vaccine developer that analysts will watch closely in 1999 is North
American Vaccine Inc. of Columbia, which finally won FDA approval last summer
for its first product, a childhood vaccine against whooping cough, diphtheria
and tetanus.

    The company has begun an aggressive marketing campaign for the vaccine,
named Certiva, with partner Abbott Laboratories. The market for such
"combination" vaccines is a large one -- $300 million a year in the United
States alone. Analysts will be watching how much of that market North American
lands this year and whether Certiva sales can move the company toward
profitability.

    EntreMed Inc., the Rockville company attempting to develop a new class of
drugs that treat cancer by cutting off a tumor's blood supply, will also be
under the microscope in 1999.

    Analysts won't be focusing on the company's financial results --
profitability is still years away -- but on whether independent cancer experts
can verify test results showing that Endostatin, its leading experimental drug,
shrinks tumors in mice.

    The National Cancer Institute, which has been working on Endostatin with
EntreMed under a government research agreement, said in November that scientists
had not been able to produce the marked regression of tumors in mice reported by
cancer researcher M. Judah Folkman. EntreMed licensed rights to Endostatin from
Folkman and Children's Hospital of Boston.

    Despite the NCI's questions, EntreMed says it expects to begin testing the
drug in human trials this year. Those results could be the most widely and
closely reviewed of any biotechnology product now in the Maryland pipeline.

    And there will be plenty to watch. According to MdBio Inc., a
Frederick-based nonprofit trade group, more than 25 new medical treatments
developed by biotechnology companies with headquarters or research operations in
Maryland are in mid- or late-stage human trials. These range from
Rockville-based Intracel's experimental vaccine to prevent colon cancer
recurrence to tiny Antex Biologics Inc. of Gaithersburg, which is developing a
vaccine for preventing an intestinal virus that afflicts millions worldwide.

    Others, like Rockville-based GenVec Inc.'s gene therapy for heart disease
and Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s experimental drug to regrow cells damaged by
degenerative disorders, are expected to enter clinical trials this year.

    While drug development is full of unexpected pitfalls, one niche of
Maryland's biotech industry expected to be on a strong growth track in 1999 will
be genomics -- the study of genes and their role in regulating the body's
complex systems. Maryland is emerging as a hotbed of genetic research and
discovery, according to a recent report by MdBio. MdBio and other experts expect
significant job growth for Maryland's biotechnology industry, which now employs
about 15,000, in the years ahead.

    Along with 2- year-old Gene Logic, which employs 100, growing gene research
outfits in Maryland include Human Genome Sciences Inc., which will be advancing
two experimental gene research-derived drugs in human trials; GenVec Inc., which
will be moving a gene treatment for heart disease into human trials; and Celera
Genomics Inc., a new $350 million venture in Rockville formed by gene pioneer J.
Craig Venter and the Perkin-Elmer Corp., of Norwalk, Conn. There's also the
nonprofit Institute for Genomic Research and the National Institutes of Health's
Human Genome Project in Bethesda.

    Celera, in particular, is expected to to hire as many as 200 this year, not
only in traditional life science fields, such as microbiology and genetics, but
also in the information science fields, says analyst Connolly. "These companies
are hungry for people with computer programming, IT information technology , and
bio-informatics skills," said Connolly. "They are recruiting nationwide and
paying top dollar -- $70,000 to $80,000 a year -- for good people. "


GRAPHIC: Photo(s) 1. Manufacture: Gary Spencer (left) and Mann Abduldayem,
fermentation technicians at North American Vaccine, produce the combination
vaccine.
 2. First product: David Aglow of North American Vaccine Inc. holds a vial of
the vaccine Certiva.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999


                             1656 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                  January 24, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. E-8, BOOK REVIEW

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: KOONTZ SEIZES MOMENT TO WRITE CREEPY THRILLER

BYLINE: ALLAN WALTON, ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR/ARTS &; ENTERTAINMENT

BODY:


   "Seize the Night"

   By Dean Koontz.

   Bantam. $ 26.95.

   Let's begin with a tiny mea culpa.Last time out, Dean Koontz had yet another
smash with "Fear Nothing." Though I suspect the terror tycoon could write out a
grocery list and find himself atop the best sellers, the novel represented a
risk of sorts.

   He introduced his fans to what would become his first recurring character,
Christopher Snow, an I-only-come-out-at-night hero who, because of a rare,
light-sensitive condition known as xeroderma pigmentosum (mercifully shortened
to XP), trades sunshine for shadows to extend what will likely be his short
life.

   What's more, he fixed up Snow with a razor-witted girlfriend (a disc jockey
named Sasha) and a smack-talkin' surfer pal (Bobby Halloway). All three, plus
Snow's trusty canine friend Orson, roam the creepy confines of coastal Moonlight
Bay.

   Then he mixed up everything by plunging into a tale of intra-species gene
therapy, leaving the more customary Koontz tales of psychological trauma and
travail in his wake.

   Well, to cut to the chase, I dumped on poor Dean with a vengeance I now
regret. A bit. I'd found the plot so convoluted and farcical, you couldn't begin
to make a pie out of the words I chose not to mince.

   Not that it mattered. Other reviewers lavished "Fear Nothing" with praise,
and readers lavished it with dollars. As for me, I went on to read what seemed
like another 100 books last year that were little more than variations of a
theme. Trust me when I say nefarious experiments in genetic engineering are big
biz in the book world.

   Fortunately, I did confess affinity for Koontz's characters. And that brings
us (at long last, I hear you snapping) to his new novel, "Seize the Night." It's
a sequel, reuniting us with the same cast and an extension of the same plot.

   And I loved it.

   Already a best seller, Koontz hits the ground running this time out, sucking
Snow and his cohorts into the intrigue of an abandoned military base and the
experiments run amok in nearly every nook and cranny. By just the third
paragraph, we learn that a 5-year-old named Jimmy Wing has vanished, setting the
stage for our hipster crew to be called to action. As much as our protagonist
would like to believe this is no Snow job, he's too much the hero to back down.
And, of course, it doesn't hurt that Jimmy's mother is a former lover and
current friend.

   Jimmy is not the only abducted child, we discover. And all trails lead to
Fort Wyvern, the base where a series of secret experiments years earlier
continue to fester in the form of genetic mutations - super-smart rhesus
monkeys, snakes, coyotes and the occasional odd human. Emphasis on the odd.

   Even Snow's dog Orson has smarts. Were it not for those pesky doorknobs, he
might have had a shot at getting into Stanford.

   Snow's deceased mother, we learned last book and again in "Seize the Night, "
had a lot to do with these experiments. The noble premise - and there's always a
noble premise - had to do with a gene-splicing retrovirus and her hope that she
could find a cure for certain genetic disorders, including the one that robs her
son of the sun. But lest we forget, this was a military base. Dreams of medical
miracles gave way to devious government officials and military men who saw an
opportunity to construct the super soldier.

   We got neither. But we got lots of trouble.

   Before long, Snow - they call him Snowman - and pals are battling everything
from the aforementioned mutant critters and maniacal oddballs to wily worms that
threaten the world.

   For my money, the saving grace of "Seize the Night," apart from the
characters, is that most of it is set at Fort Wyvern. There may be no creepier
place in literature. Koontz gives us catacombs and air locks, open spaces and
tiny places, underground hellholes and outdoor killing fields. The intensely
scary "egg room" alone gives birth to goose bumps and throat lumps. And then
there's a kind of parallel universe that holds its own special terrors.

   That's about as far as we need go; you'll do well to pay your own visit.

   And trust me: Koontz will make it worth your while. Even when the plot
strains credulity, his writing will intrigue. He's a slick writer - someone with
a rare flair for contemporary dialogue that's flip and funny but never trite.
But it's his narrative that most fascinates me, as in the following from our
protagonist, Snowman, rattling off a kind of self-awareness:

   Carpe diem, said the poet Horace, more than two thousand years ago. Seize the
day. And trust not in tomorrow.  Carpe noctem works as well for me. I seize the
night, wringing from it all that it has to offer, and I refuse to dwell on the
fact that eventually the darkness of all darknesses will wring the same from
me."

   Nice, Mr. Koontz. You might say I've come to see the light.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Dean Koontz

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999


                             1657 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               THE BALTIMORE SUN

                        January 22, 1999, Friday ,FINAL

SECTION: TELEGRAPH ,18A

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Genetic study could lead to ethnic-specific arms; British scientists
say misused advances could be weapons in 5-10 years

BYLINE: FROM WIRE AND STAFF REPORTS

BODY:

   LONDON -- Biological and genetic weapons designed to kill specific ethnic or
racial groups are no longer the stuff of science fiction, British scientists
said yesterday.

    A designer plague that would kill only Serbs or a toxin engineered to affect
Israelis or Kurds does not exist yet, but advances in biotechnology and the
mapping of all human genes could be misused to develop lethal weapons within
five to 10 years.

    Dr. Vivienne Nathanson, the head of health policy research at the British
Medical Association (BMA), said genetic information is already being used to
enhance biological weapons.

    "It would be a tragedy if in 10 years' time the world faces the reality of
genetically engineered and possibly genetically targeted weapons," she told a
news conference to launch a new book, "Biotechnology Weapons and Humanity."

    The designer weapon works on a similar principle to gene therapy, but
instead of replacing faulty genes that don't work it exploits genetic variations
to target its victims.

    The book by Professor Malcolm Dando of the department of peace studies at
the University of Bradford in northern England, paints a terrifying picture of
the power of biological weapons.

    The release of 220 pounds of anthrax spores from canisters planted in a
major city could wipe out up to 3 million people.

    The book traces the history of the development and use of biological weapons
and warns that scientific knowledge has been exploited in the past and is likely
to be misused in the future unless international action is taken.

    The book brings to mind the words of David Kelly, a top weapons inspector
for the United Nations, who said in Paris last year that he had found evidence
of an Iraqi "dirty tricks" program involving research into a biological weapon
dubbed "camel pox."

    Relying on germs found only in Arab countries where residents would have
developed immunity from prior exposure, "camel pox" would incapacitate or kill
North Americans or Europeans but spare Arabs.

    Raymond Zilinskas, a biological weapons expert at the Monterey Institute of
International Studies in Washington, said "ethnic weapons" have been discussed
at least since 1972 and may well become a threat in the future.

    But Zilinskas said it will become possible to design such a weapon only
after scientists complete the mapping of the human genome, probably about 2002.

    Many more years of study are likely to be necessary after that to identify
unique genetic markers for certain ethnic groups and to develop biological
agents to target them, he said.

    The report urges the international community to strengthen the 1972
Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention to improve verification procedures.

    It also calls on doctors and scientists to protect the integrity of their
work and to monitor the potential use of genome mapping.

    "Getting rid of weapons once they are produced is very difficult," said
Nathanson.

    "Governments may be reluctant to give up weapons that the rest of the world
find unacceptable.

    " Terrorists certainly will be."

    Sun staff writer Scott Shane contributed to this article.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1999


                             1658 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                    January 22, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: BRAIN CELLS ABLE TO MAKE BLOOD

BYLINE: ANITA SRIKAMESWARAN, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   When in Rome, brain cells make blood cells.

   Odd as it sounds, researchers have found in animal studies that when cells
that usually make brain cells are transplanted into the blood system, they make
blood components instead.

   The feat challenges long-held beliefs that cells are destined from the womb
to make specific tissues and have no ability to change their fates. And if that
principle is wrong, scientists could eventually make replacement cells for every
condition, from Parkinson's disease to liver failure, by ma nipulating stem
cells, the factories that manufacture specialized tissue cells.

   The idea that cells can switch identities is startling, but other researchers
say it's consistent with phenomena they've seen in their own laboratories. At
the University of Pittsburgh, for instance, researchers have found that muscle
cells can make bone and that liver cells can be regressed to a stem cell-like
state and then redirected into the production of either bile duct cells or more
liver cells.

   Taken together, these findings suggest that scientists should rethink cell
development and examine how the biochemical en vironment influences the fate of
cells. And they support speculation that doctors will someday be able to remove
a piece of a patient's muscle tissue and use it to perform a bone marrow
transplant or to repair stroke damage to the brain.

   Just last fall, scientists announced that they had isolated stem cells from
human embryos, which theoretically could be sources of replacement cells. Though
National Institutes of Health officials this week said the federal government
could pay for research involving these embryonic stem cells, the use of cells
derived from human embryos remains controversial. The findings being reported
today suggest that scientists may be able to grow replacement cells while
sidestepping abortion concerns.

   Until now, scientists thought that neural stem cells could make only
specialized cells of the central nervous system.

   But a team of Italian and Canadian researchers has shown that removing adult
stem cells from the brains of mice and infusing them into the bloodstream of
other mice makes them produce blood cells, such as T-cells and B-cells of the
immune system. They report the findings in today's issue of the journal Science.

   According to one of the authors, neurobiologist Angelo Vescovi of Milan's
National Neurological Institute, if the brain-to-blood transition is possible,
"it means the opposite may be true as well."

   Brain researchers have struggled to grow replacements for damaged or dead
neurons to treat illnesses such as Parkinson's disease. In time, the new
findings suggest, stem cell biologists might be able to generate all kinds of
cells.

   "Whether this is a theory that can be generalized to other tissues, it's
really hard to tell right now," Vescovi said. "There is a hope, though, that
this is the case. Maybe in the future ... we can make brain cells from blood,
liver, or who knows [what else]."

   A few years ago, experts would have scoffed at the idea. Sure, cells of all
kinds are created from the one-cell starting point of sperm and egg. But after
the initial rounds of cell multiplication in the embryo, scientists thought,
precursor cells become more specialized. In other words, a blood stem cell only
makes blood cells, a brain stem cell only makes brain cells and so on.

   It was also thought that adult brain tissue did not contain stem cells and so
could not regenerate or heal in the manner of blood or bone.

   Many of these ideas are being questioned - and refuted.

   Earlier this month, researchers from Stockholm's Karolinska Institute
published findings that neural stem cells could be isolated from the brains of
adult rats. Since 1992, experiments have shown that adult brains could make new
neurons, suggesting the existence of these stem cells.

   The presence of adult brain stem cells in humans has not been confirmed, but
they are expected to lie in the same region of the brain as they do in animals,
lining brain cavities called ventricles.

   Vescovi's team took brain stem cells from adult and embryonic mice carrying a
gene that made their cells turn blue in a chemical test. Mice without the gene
received enough radiation to destroy blood-producing stem cells in the bone
marrow, thymus and spleen.

   The brain stem cells were injected into the tail vein of the irradiated mice,
a procedure similar to a bone marrow transplant. A short time later, blood cells
appeared in the systems of the recipient mice that turned blue when tested. The
marker's presence showed that the transplanted brain cells had made blood cells.

   "The outcome was more striking than we expected," Vescovi said. The brain
cells took longer to replenish the blood system than blood stem cells would
have, he acknowledged, but early results showed the animals survived longer with
the transplant than without one.

   Stem cell pioneer Ron McKay, of the National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke in Bethesda, Md., said "there's no question that this
experiment is going to provoke a lot of interest and work, and I like it a great
deal."

   He said imperfect experiments conducted a few years ago suggested that bone
marrow cells can give rise to nerve cells. But scientists weren't sure that the
marrow cell samples were pure, so they couldn't prove what cell had made the
nerve cells.

   McKay has found that neural stem cells can make muscle cells and, in the
early 1990s, a French developmental biologist showed that the precursors could
generate not only the types of nerve cells found outside the brain and spinal
cord, but also cartilage cells.

   "One of the questions all this raises is, what does one mean by precursor
[cells]? That's really the issue," McKay said. Cells may not be wed to a
specialization as early as thought, if at all.

   Local researchers have come to similar conclusions.

   Johnny Huard, director of the Musculoskeletal Growth and Development Lab at
Children's Hospital's Rangos Research Center, studies the simple muscle cells
called myoblasts. Searching for treatments for muscular dystrophy, he focused on
the spindle-shaped myoblasts and, until recently, ignored the presence of a
group of cells that were round in shape.

   These round cells were believed to be immature cells that repaired local
injuries by developing into new muscle cells. But Huard now thinks they are stem
cells, capable of producing more than muscle.

   "For 10 years, I was throwing the best cells in the garbage," he added.

   He has performed tests to show that the cells make bone when exposed to a
growth factor called bone morphogenic protein. His studies also demonstrate that
when muscle tissue is placed in a defect in a rabbit's foreleg bones, they form
new bone to heal better than if left alone.

   "We're trying to see if we can isolate those cells from skin and [fat]
tissue," Huard said. "I do not believe those cells are uniquely restricted to
skeletal muscle."

   Such cells can be readily grown in large numbers and might be used for gene
therapy in muscular dystrophy, or to make bone grafts to heal fractures. If they
can make cartilage, ligament or tendon, they could be used in the treatment of
arthritis and sports injuries.

   There is a growing agreement that cell development is not a one-way street,
said Dr. Geoffrey Block, co-director of the Protein Technology Center at the
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. Just because a cell has become
specialized - or, differentiated - doesn't mean it can't revert back to its
undifferentiated state or assume a different speciality.

   Three years ago, Block reported that he had found a way to grow liver cells
in culture, a feat that had eluded other researchers for decades. The secret was
to reverse the differentiation of adult liver cells, causing them to revert back
to liver stem cells.

   He accomplished this in much the same way that the Italian-Canadian team was
able to get neural stem cells to act like bone marrow stem cells - by changing
their environment. In Block's case, he concocted several types of culture media
that coaxed the cells into a stage of development in which they could divide and
multiply.

   But not everyone was receptive to the report he published in the Journal of
Cell Biology. "There's dogma and popular belief in science as much as in
anything else," he said. "The reviewers [for the journal] let us publish it but
were heavy-handed about what we could describe."

   Block was allowed to claim that the cells had experienced reverse
differentiation. But he wasn't allowed to say that they had undergone
transdifferentiation - that they could be turned into a different type of cell.
Block said he had, in fact, been able to turn liver cells into bile duct cells.

   After publication, Block said, one prominent science writer called him up and
accused him of lying, maintaining that it was impossible to reverse
differentiation.

   The university has applied for a series of patents on Block's liver cell
process and last month received approval for the initial patent on several
culture media. Block also has formed a company, called Cellect Bio Inc., that is
negotiating with Pitt to license the process.

   Block and his partners foresee using the process to grow vast quantities of
liver cells, which might help ease the shortage of donor livers for transplant.

   The cells could be infused into patients who are suffering liver failure, but
who aren't candidates for a liver transplant. Or the cell transplants might also
be used as a "bridge" to keep liver transplant candidates alive until a donor
organ becomes available. The cells might also be used in artificial livers.

   Block also is trying to apply these techniques to pancreatic islet cells,
insulin-producing cells that might be used to treat diabetes.

   He said the Italian-Canadian study "is good science and it's good functional
science." Unlike Block's experiments in petri dishes, the scientists
accomplished what appears to be a transdifferentiation of the stem cells in a
living animal.

   Science editor Byron Spice contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Cells undergo identity
shift

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999


                             1659 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 21, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: ST. CLAIR-MONROE COUNTY POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: CELEBRATION WILL OFFICIALLY KICK OFF CHARITY VENTURE;
BELLEVILLE RESTAURANT BECOMES NONPROFIT ESTABLISHMENT TO RAISE MONEY FOR MD;
FIGHT

BYLINE: Bob Blanchard; Special To The Post-Dispatch

DATELINE: BELLEVILLE

BODY:


   When their 5-year-old son was diagnosed with muscular dystrophy recently,
Kevin and LeAnn Edelen decided to use their restaurant to raise funds to fight
against the disease.

   "Our son is affected, but this decision - we hope - will help everyone
stricken with MD," said Kevin Edelen. "This is an opportunity to help our son
and millions of others with MD and similar diseases. And the people, our
customers, are overwhelmed that this is a good thing."

   Their restaurant, The Barn, off Hartman Lane east of Belleville, is now a
not-for-profit establishment. Its profits, after all expenses are paid, are
donated to the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

   A grand opening celebration on Friday and Saturday will be a fund-raiser for
the association and for the Duchenne Parent Project.

   The celebration will include disc jockey Jim Hursey, attendance prizes,
clowns Pinky and Stinky, face painting, magician Joshua, caricature artist Jim
Parrish, and local celebrity bartenders.

   A silent auction is scheduled from 6 to 9 p.m. Saturday. Sale items will
include beanie babies, jewelry, crafts, gift baskets, massages and enrollment in
a scuba class.

   "Local merchants have been very supportive of the auction, and we're still
looking for items," Edelen said.

   The Edelens have owned the restaurant three years, and moved it to its
present location a year ago. They recently changed the name from Louisiana
Jack's to The Barn, the original name of the restaurant there, and they made
several changes in the menu.

   Kevin, a salesman, is a former McDonnell Douglas employee. His wife is a
nurse at Memorial Hospital in Belleville. They requested that this article not
include their son's name or photo.

   He explained their request for privacy: "He looks and acts like a normal 5
year old, and does not know about MD. We want him to have a normal life. It's
hard to look at what his future holds if a cure is not found."

   Their son has Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), a genetic muscle disease
that affects boys, causing progressive weakness of skeletal, cardiac and
respiratory muscles and usually leading to death in their 20s. In many cases,
the effects are observed between the ages of 7 and 9.

   Edelen said recent breakthroughs in gene therapy research have led scientists
and physicians to believe a cure is "very, very close."

   The MDA, he said, funds research on 40 related diseases, sends children to
summer camps, and helps families with their medical expenses.

The Parent Project helps finance DMD research.

   Business at the restaurant is "good on weekends, but sometimes slow on
weekdays," Edelen said.

'Don't offer many frills'

   He kept most of the Cajun favorites of Louisiana Jack's and added some new
items, including pizza and fish specials. Among the favorites is an ap petizer
of fried alligator, popcorn crawfish and crab cake. He added that prices are
lower and the focus on a good time.

   "We don't offer many frills any more. You have to wait on yourself, placing
the order at a counter and picking up your food when it's ready."

   The Edelens remodeled an upstairs banquet room into a sports-and-cigar lounge
called The Loft. The lounge, for customers over 21, features a large-screen
television, a fireplace, a bar, a video golf game, and darts.

Another upstairs banquet room was unchanged.

   Two popular spots downstairs are the children's room with lots of toys and
the well-decorated Mardi Gras room with long tables for parties.

   On Tuesdays, when children eat free, the children's room is frequently
crowded.

   "Mardi Gras is a big event for us," Edelen commented. "We have a float in the
St. Louis Soulard area parade, and we send busloads of people there."

   His plans for The Barn include additions of a sand volleyball court and an
overlooking deck.

   The Edelens are hopeful that the restaurant will have many fund-raising
events organized and promoted by the MDA.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by BOB BLANCHARD - Kevin Edelen in front of The Barn
restaurant near Belleville. Profits go the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
Edelen's son is battling MD.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999


                             1660 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                    January 19, 1999, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 1; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: UCLA LOOKS TO FUTURE IN RESHAPING MEDICAL COMPLEX;
 HEALTH: FACILITIES REPLACING QUAKE-DAMAGED CENTER WILL STRESS ABILITY TO HANDLE
ADVANCES IN CARE, TECHNOLOGY.

BYLINE: JULIE MARQUIS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   The 1994 Northridge earthquake that left much of UCLA's medical complex
unstable has given the university the rare opportunity--and nearly half a
billion dollars in government funds--to define in concrete terms what academic
medicine will look like in the 21st century.

   Though it can hardly be called a stroke of luck, the ruinous temblor is
allowing UCLA to reinvent its medical campus, to scrap the dull blocks of
buildings with their miles of serpentine hallways, and begin anew.

   To ride the economic and technological waves that are expected to shift ever
more rapidly in the next century, the new, $ 600-million hospital is being
designed with maximum flexibility in mind.

   The key, said Dr. Gerald S. Levey, UCLA's provost for medical sciences, is to
be ready for just about anything.

   If the patient population becomes sicker, average rooms can be converted,
without much ado, to intensive care units. If surgeries fall off, the number of
operating rooms can be reduced to make room for gene therapy or other developing
technologies--without knocking down walls. The corridors will wrap around the
building, rather than cutting through it, so that there is plenty of undissected
room for change.

   "What we are going to see even in the next 10-20 years of medicine is
staggering to the imagination, so it's even more important that we be both
comforting and flexible," Levey said.

   If designs for the hospital, to be unveiled today by renowned architect I.M.
Pei, are any clue, 21st century academic medical centers will be a lot snazzier,
with buff-colored buildings, garden getaways, spacious single rooms and rounded
travertine towers to capture maximum light.

   The new UCLA hospital is intended as a friendly place, as simple as possible
to navigate, however high-tech the goings-on inside.

   "I think this hospital is unlike many others that I have seen in that it is
broken down into smaller units, so there is a more human scale," said Pei, who
worked with his sons at Pei Partnership in New York and local architects Perkins
and Will on the project. "Light is curative. It's very helpful to patients . . .
cheers them up."

   Designed to ride out an earthquake of up to magnitude 8.4, the hospital is
the centerpiece of a $ 1.3-billion face lift of the medical campus, the largest
and most costly single building project in UC history. Some employees are making
proud comparisons to the new incarnation of the Getty Museum.

   But some independent health care experts are nervous about the tab, given the
struggles faced by teaching hospitals nationwide to meld cutting-edge research
and treatment with essential cost-consciousness. "There needs to be a major
public debate about spending this amount of money," said Marc Roberts, a health
policy expert at the Harvard University School of Public Health.

   The project, however, was unanimously approved by UC regents in November,
with nothing close to the controversy that has marked the rebuilding of Los
Angeles County-USC Medical Center. Of course, UCLA is not a county facility; it
functions more like a private hospital. Now, it will look like one.

   Mindful of Medical History

   The money for the UCLA project is buying more than a comforting environment,
pleasing to the eye, UCLA officials say. It is buying--or so officials hope--the
ability to accommodate just about any fathomable change in medicine in the next
100 years. In that sense, it is less a prediction about the future of medical
care than a bet on its unpredictability.

   The designers are mindful of history. Who in 1900 would have guessed that
space would be needed for machines that watch brains thinking? Or accommodations
required for open-heart surgeries and organ transplants?

   "There isn't a person who can tell you with any certainty what the health
care system is going to be like" beyond the next few decades, Levey said.

   UCLA officials believe that not only have they planned for every possible
contingency, they have done so in a way that will save dollars. The current
Center for Health Sciences, including the hospital, is a sprawling complex with
86 entrances and exits, 27 miles of hallways and plodding, multipurpose
elevators, where time and effort is wasted simply getting anywhere (and, in the
case of visitors, getting lost).

   In the new hospital, by contrast, related services will be clustered
together--with entire floors devoted to maternal and children's services or
neuropsychiatry--and high-speed elevator service to each location.

   For all the emphasis on flexibility, UCLA's plans are based on the assumption
that certain basic trends in health care will continue. Hospital patients are
expected to arrive more acutely ill than ever before and to stay for shorter
periods. Most routine care will occur in outpatient settings or in UCLA's newly
acquired community hospital, 250-bed Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center. The main
hospital--322 beds smaller than the current 857-bed facility--will be reserved
for more intensive and specialized care.

   As in academic medical centers nationwide, the main hospital will be part of
a health care system, not the sole bastion of research and treatment.

   "Academic medicine has really changed"--becoming much more integrated into
surrounding communities, said Dr. David B. Skinner, chief executive officer of
New York Presbyterian Hospital, which was recently rebuilt to the tune of $ 760
million and provided inspiration to UCLA planners.

   This transformation of academic medicine has enormous upfront costs.

   Fortunately for the university, the Federal Emergency Management Agency is
providing $ 432 million toward the hospital reconstruction, with $ 44 million
from the state. The infusion of government dollars gives UCLA a boost that many
seismically shaky hospitals--about 28% of the state's total--won't have as they
rush to abide by a state deadline to rebuild or retrofit by 2008.

   Strategic Planning for the Long Term

   Beyond the new hospital, UCLA's project includes erecting three replacement
buildings for research and education, demolishing the existing hospital,
retrofitting other structures on the UCLA campus and making improvements at the
Santa Monica hospital.

   About $ 700 million--of which more than $ 120 million has already been
raised--will come from private sources. This includes about $ 300 million in
bonds approved by the UC regents.

   In today's volatile health care market, the university is banking not only on
its ability to raise enough private funds for construction but to support the
facilities' operations over the long term.

   Roberts, of Harvard, is skeptical. "In the past, the strategic planning has
been done on the 'field of dreams' principle: If you build it, they will come.
In a highly competitive health care environment, it increasingly has been hard
for very high-cost providers to convince people to come."

   Dr. Michael Karpf, UCLA Medical Center director, said he is confident that
patients will keep coming because of UCLA's "essential services," from basic
primary care to specialized therapies such as liver and heart transplants. Karpf
said the medical center is often at capacity now and has vastly improved its
financial picture in the past five years.

   Given demographic trends, "I can't imagine the demand not being there" for
UCLA, said Jim Lott, executive vice president of the Health Care Assn. of
Southern California. He cited state estimates that the population in the Los
Angeles area will grow to 14 million by 2040, with an increasing number of poor
residents--which portends higher rates of disease.

   Though it may be too much to expect a hospital to be an alluring place, many
doctors, nurses and staff members involved in the planning of the new facility
said they hope that it will make an often sad or scary experience more
agreeable.

   "We wanted to break away from the notion of a hospital as a square building
with a few windows which people enter and then leave again with great relief,"
said Dr. Peter Whybrow, chairman of the Department of Neuropsychiatry and
Biobehavioral Sciences.

   "Nobody likes going to the hospital anyway, but we thought if you had a sense
of light and space . . . and could remove some of the onerous sense of doom and
dismay that very often surrounds hospitals, patients would be much better
served."


   A New Medical Plan

   A new hospital will form the centerpiece of a $ 1.3-billion project to repair
and replace earthquake-damaged portions of UCLA's health sciences complex. The
eight-story, 525-bed facility is scheduled to open in 2004.

   UCLA Medical Plaza: Existing outpatient center.

   UCLA Medical Center: New hospital to be built.

   Neuropsychiatry: Building to be razed.

   Westwood Plaza circle

   Rendering courtesy of UCLA

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-CHART: A New Medical Plan / LYNN MEERSMAN / Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1661 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                January 19, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Health & Fitness

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Enlist H.I.V. To Fight Other Ills

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

BODY:

   In a bold but potentially frightening effort to turn one of the world's most
virulent killers into a cure, scientists and biotechnology companies are trying
to tame the AIDS virus and harness it to treat disease.

   The scientists say they have stripped the human immunodeficiency virus of its
ability to cause disease, while leaving intact its ability to infect human
cells. Such a crippled virus, they say, could be used to deliver genes into
human cells for gene therapy.

    Several university scientists and biotechnology companies hope to begin
clinical trials using the modified H.I.V. viruses to carry genes that they hope
can be used to treat diseases such as cancer and hemophilia. At least one
attempt will even be made to use the modified H.I.V., the virus that causes
AIDS, to treat AIDS itself.

   "It would be ironic to cure AIDS with the AIDS virus," said Dr. Inder M.
Verma, a professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies here, who has
pioneered the effort to harness H.I.V. for gene therapy. But he added, "There is
a saying that diamond cuts diamond."

   Dr. Verma and others involved in such research say it is virtually
inconceivable that anyone treated using the crippled H.I.V. could get AIDS as a
result. The gene carrier, which is known as a vector, not only is missing the
H.I.V. genes that cause disease but also lacks the ability to replicate and
spread in the body, they say.

   But some experts note that in rare instances, disabled viruses can recombine
with genetic material from other viruses or from the person's own cells to
regain the ability to replicate. And even if the actual risks are low, patients
are likely to be afraid, and regulators cautious, about injecting patients with
even a modified AIDS virus.

   "It's a human pathogen that's caused a terrible pandemic, so one needs to be
thoughtful about using it, even in a crippled form," said Dr. Eric Poeschla, an
assistant professor of medicine at the University of California at San Diego.

   The Food and Drug Administration, whose approval is required for gene therapy
trials, agreed. "There are a number of scientific questions and safety issues to
be addressed before any of that could go forward," Dr. Philip Noguchi, the
director of the agency's division of cellular and gene therapies, said in an
interview. "We don't quite know what we should be concerned about because the
biological understanding has not been developed yet."

   The National Institutes of Health held a meeting of experts last March to
explore the use of H.I.V. vectors for gene therapy, which involves inserting
genes for a particular function into a patient's cells. But Dr. Noguchi said a
wider, more open public hearing would be held before his agency would consider
approving the first such trial. "The public hasn't really weighed in with its
own opinion," he said.

   It is the very infectiousness of H.I.V. that makes it attractive for gene
therapy, which so far has not lived up to its expectations. People with
hemophilia, for instance, have an inherited genetic defect that prevents them
from making a crucial protein needed for blood clotting. But if enough of the
patient's cells could be provided with the proper gene, the patient could
manufacture his own blood clotting factor.

   To deliver the genes of interest, scientists generally insert them into
debilitated viruses, because viruses spread by delivering their own genetic
material into the cells of their target. But gene therapy, which has been tried
for about a decade, has in general failed because it has been impossible to
deliver enough of the genes, and get them to work long enough, to make enough of
the required protein.

   In many cases the viral gene carriers are attacked and destroyed by the
body's immune system. Some of the viruses used so far allow for only transient
production of the protein because they do not incorporate the genes they carry
into the chromosomes of the target cells.

   One of the most commonly used vectors, derived from mouse leukemia virus, can
deliver genes into chromosomes, where, it is hoped, they will operate for a long
time. But this vector can do this only when cells are dividing, making it
difficult to treat diseases in the brain, liver, heart and other organs in which
cells divide rarely if at all. And a promising new vector, based on
adeno-associated viruses, appears safe and somewhat effective, but is limited in
the size of the genes it can carry. H.I.V., on the other hand, is both cunning
at evading the body's immune defenses and can carry large genes. Most important,
it is one of a small class of viruses, known as lentiviruses, that can
incorporate genes into the chromosomes even of nondividing cells.

   "Lentiviral vectors are really a new hope in the field of gene therapy," said
Dr. Philippe LeBoulch, assistant professor of medicine at Harvard University and
chief scientific officer of Genetix Pharmaceuticals Inc., a privately held
Massachusetts company planning to use H.I.V.-based vectors in gene therapy.

   Dr. Verma's lab has used the vector to incorporate genes into the brain,
liver, muscle, bone marrow and retinal cells of rats or mice. The genes seem to
function for months.

   Still, others say, it is not clear whether the H.I.V. vectors will be
efficient enough to make gene therapy work. "They are still going to have to
struggle to get genes into people, even using an H.I.V. vector," said Dr.
Poeschla of the University of California.

   Besides being very infectious, the AIDS virus has been extensively studied,
so that scientists know how to modify it. "We know every nucleotide down to the
last base," Dr. Verma said.

   His laboratory's latest vector removes six of the nine genes in the AIDS
virus. One big change that is required is that of the virus's protein coat,
which determines which cells it can attach to. The AIDS virus mainly infects
certain white blood cells known as T cells. So scientists have replaced the
H.I.V. protein coat with that of a cattle virus that seems to be able to infect
many different types of human cells.

   The only genes taken from the H.I.V. itself to make the vector are those that
govern the process by which the viral genetic material is incorporated into the
chromosome of the target cell. These genes are put into cells known as packaging
cells, which produce the actual vectors.

   The vectors themselves -- the particles that would be injected into a patient
-- contain the viral proteins needed to incorporate the therapeutic gene into
the patient's chromosomes, but they do not contain the genes that direct the
creation of those proteins. So after it incorporates the gene into one cell, the
viral particle cannot go on to direct the cell to produce more viruses.

   Dr. Verma and others point out that the H.I.V. vectors are far more different
from a real virus than the crippled viruses that are already used in traditional
vaccines for deadly diseases like smallpox and polio.

   They also note that the other vectors used for gene therapy, while perhaps
not effective, have also not been shown to cause disease in patients or to
recombine with other genetic material to become active again, in part because
the F.D.A. has strict guidelines for vector purity.

   Dr. Michael Emerman of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle,
who had questioned the safety of H.I.V. vectors when Dr. Verma's lab reported
two years ago on its first one, said the newer ones have fewer H.I.V. genes and
appear to be safer.

   "A lot of the concerns I had at the time are being addressed," he said. One
possible concern, he said, is that people who receive the vectors may test
positive for AIDS on a frequently used blood test because they may make
antibodies to particular AIDS proteins that remain in the vector.

   Still, some scientists say it is best not to play with fire. If a lentivirus
is needed because of its ability to infect nondividing cells, then animal
viruses could be used instead of H.I.V.

   Dr. Poeschla and Dr. Garry P. Nolan, an assistant professor at Stanford
University School of Medicine, are independently developing vectors based on the
feline immunodeficiency virus, which causes an AIDS-like disease in cats but has
not been known to cause disease in people. Oxford Biomedica, a British
biotechnology company, and Dr. John C. Olsen of the University of North Carolina
are separately developing vectors based on equine infectious anemia virus, which
causes a disease in horses.

   "It's not so much the real danger," Dr. Nolan said. "It's the psychological
issues." He said that even some of his own researchers would object to using the
AIDS virus. "I want to do research without looking over my shoulders all the
time," he said.

   Dr. Nolan said there was "absolutely not" a chance that someone could get
AIDS itself from use of such a vector. But he said there was a very small risk
that the vector could recombine with another virus, creating a new virus that
could spread in the patient's body or even to someone else.

   But proponents of the H.I.V. vectors say that there might be some risk of
introducing animal viruses into people as well.

   "When you take a virus from one species and move it to another, it's very
difficult to predict what will happen," said Dr. Didier Trono, professor of
genetics and microbiology at the University of Geneva. Dr. Trono, who was
previously at the Salk Institute, was a major collaborator with Dr. Verma in
developing the lentiviral vector, along with F. H. Gage, who is still at Salk,
and Luigi Naldini, now at the University of Turin in Italy.

   Even those who insist that the vectors are safe acknowledge that political
problems will confine H.I.V. vectors to use in the most serious diseases.
"Clearly one is going to want to start to address the questions in patients with
terminal diseases," said Dr. Stephen A. Sherwin, president of Cell Genesys, a
gene therapy company in Foster City, Calif. The company, of which Dr. Verma is a
director, is thinking of trying the H.I.V. vector on cancer.

   Genetix also is thinking of inserting a gene that confers resistance to
chemotherapy drugs into blood stem cells, the cells in bone marrow that give
rise to all blood cells. That would allow patients to undergo stronger
chemotherapy without destroying their immune systems or requiring bone marrow
transplants. The company has a patented H.I.V. vector, based on work by Dr.
Joseph G. Sodroski of Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute.

   But Dr. Verma wants to use his vector to treat hemophilia and hopes to apply
for Federal permission for a clinical trial in a year or so.

   Dr. Donald Kohn, director of gene therapy at Childrens Hospital Los Angeles,
hopes to apply this year for Federal approval to use the H.I.V. vector to treat
AIDS, delivering a gene that interferes with the functioning of the H.I.V.
virus. One question is whether this gene will also interfere with the
functioning of the vector.

   Dr. Kohn, who is also a professor at the University of Southern California
School of Medicine, has unsuccessfully tried to use gene therapy for AIDS and
other diseases, delivering the genes to blood stem cells.

   "We have just not been getting the genes into the bone marrow cells," he
said. But experiments using the Salk Institute vector on bone marrow cells grown
in culture show "the lentivirus is much, much better," he said. The safety of
the vector, he added, is not that much of a concern for AIDS patients.
"Certainly, nothing you give them will be worse than what they have," he said.


   http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Inder M. Verma of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies
is working on advances in gene therapy. (Robert Burroughs for The New York
Times)(pg. F9)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1662 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                January 19, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

BODY:


   President Will Seek Money To Help Parents and Russia
In his State of the Union address tonight, President Clinton is expected to call
for tax breaks for parents who stay home to care for children under age 1, and
for more money for Russia, to decrease the threat posed by its nuclear arsenal.
   Page A15.

Shorter Season Molds Race
The compressed calendar of Presidential primaries has set off a competitive
fund-raising frenzy among Republican and Democratic contenders.   Page A12.


   Laser Breakthrough
A Japanese inventor has developed a new laser that is likely to hasten the
advent of higher-quality appliances ranging from from televisions to light
bulbs.   Page C1.

Bold Virus Initiative
Genetic scientists are seeking to take the ability to cause disease out of the
AIDS virus, then use the crippled virus to deliver genes into human cells for
gene therapy.   Page F1.

DiMaggio Leaves Hospital
After 99 days in a hospital where he had lung-cancer surgery and battled
pneumonia, Joe DiMaggio went home.   SportsTuesday, page D2.

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1663 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      JANUARY 19, 1999 Tuesday SF EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE BUBBLE MAY BE OVERBLOWN

BYLINE: Miriam Hill, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   They're called Amazombies. They look like regular people, but they have an
overwhelming - and so far, very profitable - obsession: the stock of Amazon.com.

   Shares of the online retailer spiked 966 percent in 1998 and an additional 31
percent in the first two weeks of 1999. More than any other stock, Amazon.com
has come to symbolize the mania for Internet stocks, a craze that longtime
market-watchers said exceeds anything they have ever witnessed.

   "It's the wildest thing I've ever seen after 30 years in the business," said
Chuck Hill, research director for First Call Corp., which tracks earnings
estimates. "I think the market as a whole is overpriced and that we're in a
bubble and the extreme within that bubble is the Internet stocks."

   So strong is the rush to buy Internet stocks that the mere mention of the
word can send a company's shares into the stratosphere. Shares in Active Apparel
Group Inc. surged 1,420 percent in the two trading days ended Dec. 29 after the
company said it was going to start selling its Everlast brand clothing over the
Internet.

   Some companies' shares have soared on even shakier Internet connections:
Zapata Corp. stock rose 92 percent Dec. 23 after the Houston fish-oil company
said it planned to get into the Internet business but did not say how.

   Shares of Active Apparel and Zapata have since simmered down, although they
remain well above their pre-hysteria highs.

   Internet stocks showed some weakness last week, but not enough to create the
painful pop that has ended previous bubbles.

   Princeton University economist Burton Malkiel said he will add the Internet
bubble to chapters on manias in the seventh edition of his investment classic, A
Random Walk Down Wall Street, due out this year.

   "I am convinced that many investors are going to take substantial losses by
buying willy-nilly anything that has dot-com in it," Malkiel said.

   Malkiel and others who have studied, and in some cases lived through,
previous manias offer eerie parallels to the present:

   * At the height of tulip mania in Holland in 1635, investors paid today's
equivalent of $17,430 to $76,085 for a single tulip bulb, said Mark Hirschey,
University of Kansas business professor. Contracts for tulip bulbs were traded
on the Amsterdam stock exchange, and "people from all walks of life liquidated
homes and real estate at ridiculously low prices to garner funds for tulip
speculation," Hirschey said.

   Just last week, a former student called to tell Hirschey how several friends
had taken out second mortgages to buy Internet stocks - and had doubled their
money.

   * The late 1950s and early 1960s spurred a love of any stock with a high-tech
name. Investors called it the "tronics boom," since the stock offerings usually
included some version of the word "tronics," just as many companies today are
adding ".com" to their names.

   As with today's market, new companies went public and enriched the initial
investors overnight. The boom turned into a bust in 1962, and many of the
so-called hot companies went out of business, Malkiel said.

   *In the late 1960s, the market fell in love with computer-leasing stocks
after IBM introduced a new line of mainframe computers.

   Hill of First Call remembered shares of companies such as University
Computing, which leased space on mainframe computers, selling for 100 times
projected earnings. People thought that was an astronomical valuation for the
stock, and its shares plummetted from $102 to $13 between 1968 and 1970.

   America Online today trades at about 260 times projected earnings.

   * Biotechnology companies, which investors hoped would conquer cancer with
gene therapy and create new, healthier foods, went through two boom periods, the
first in the mid-1980s and the second in the early 1990s.

   From August 1990 to January 1992, the American Stock Exchange Biotechnology
Index, a measure of the industry that includes 15 companies, rose almost 300
percent.

   But by 1994, when the industry was losing about $4 billion a year, the index
fell 50 percent from its 1992 levels. It has never returned to its 1992 high.

   The 159.38 percent increase in TheStreet.com Internet Sector Index last year
may seem minor in comparison, but it terrifies some experts.

   Some market makers, firms that are supposed to step in to make sure there is
always a buyer or seller for a stock, have gotten so nervous about Internet
stocks that they have stopped trading them.

   E.E. "Buzzy" Geduld, president of Herzog Heine Geduld Inc., a market maker in
New York, said his firm had started matching trades of Internet stocks manually
rather than electronically. That way, the firm merely matches buyers and sellers
and does not risk its own capital.

   As in many previous booms, the steep rise in the prices of Internet stocks
has caused securities analysts to develop new ways to value those companies.
Stock-pickers can't use the usual methods. Many of the companies, including
Amazon, don't have earnings or other numbers necessary to evaluate a company's
prospects.

   Two of Wall Street's top analysts went to war over Amazon last month.

   Jonathan Cohen of Merrill Lynch urged clients to reduce their shares, which
he said were worth only $50 (about $17 after a 3-for-1 stock split announced
Jan. 5).

   At the same time, Henry Blodget of CIBC Oppenheimer predicted that Amazon
could hit $400 (about $133 after the split) a share. Within three weeks, it did.

   Cohen said he was not certain the company, which is expected to lose 54 cents
a share in the fourth quarter, would ever achieve profits. Blodget figured
Amazon could earn about $10 a share within five years if it could grab 10
percent of the $100-billion-a-year market for books, music and videos. His
analysis was built on numerous assumptions, any one of which could fail to pan
out.

   The Amazombies, who hang out in chat rooms at the Silicon Investor and Raging
Bull Web sites, closely followed such analysis. Then, they bought more Amazon
shares.

   Indeed, the most powerful force behind the Internet rage is individual
investors. Some are buying on the "greater fool" theory - betting that even
though they are paying a hefty price today, a greater fool will come along to
buy the shares. Others believe they are getting in early on the next Microsofts.

   With the advent of online trading, they can buy and sell shares by clicking a
mouse. Amazon, for example, typically trades in blocks of about 400 shares. That
indicates strong buying by small investors, because retailer Wal-Mart, to which
Amazon is often compared, trades in blocks of about 1,400 shares.

   Scott Shields, who grew up in Blackwood and Clementon, N.J., but now works in
the pharmaceuticals industry in Bethesda, Md., invested about $3,000 of money he
has set aside for speculative investments in Amazon.com a few weeks ago.

   He checks the price three or four times a day, ready to sell if the company's
shares start dropping quickly.

   "I try to pick stocks that are leaders in the field that have not only brand
recognition, but brand dominance, and to me Amazon.com is light years ahead of
Barnes & Noble," Shields said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND CHART;
PHOTO
Holland's tulip mania in the 1600s was one of the first investing bubbles. Its
collapse led to a depression. Tulipa Schrenkii plants in Ann Arbor, Mich.
(above) date to 1595. (NICO TOUTENHOFFD, Associated Press)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002


                             1664 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1999 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       January 19, 1999 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 11E

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS ENLIST HIV TO FIGHT OTHER DISEASES

BYLINE: By Andrew Pollack 1999, The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

BODY:

   In a bold but potentially frightening effort to turn one of the world's most
virulent killers into a cure, scientists and biotechnology companies are trying
to tame the AIDS virus and harness it to treat disease.

   The scientists say they have stripped the human immunodeficiency virus of its
ability to cause disease, while leaving intact its ability to infect human
cells. Such a crippled virus, they say, could be used to deliver genes into
human cells for gene therapy.

   Several university scientists and biotechnology companies hope to begin
clinical trials using the modified HIV to carry genes that they hope can be used
to treat diseases such as cancer and hemophilia. At least one attempt will even
be made to use the modified HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, to treat AIDS
itself.

   "It would be ironic to cure AIDS with the AIDS virus," said Dr. Inder Verma,
a professor at The Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego, who has
pioneered the effort to harness HIV for gene therapy. But he added, "There is a
saying that diamond cuts diamond."

   Verma and others involved in such research say it is virtually inconceivable
that anyone treated using the crippled HIV could get AIDS as a result. The gene
carrier, which is known as a vector, not only is missing the HIV genes that
cause disease but also lacks the ability to replicate and spread in the body,
they say.

   But some experts say that in rare instances, disabled viruses can recombine
with genetic material from other viruses or from the person's own cells to
regain the ability to replicate. And even if the actual risks are low, patients
are likely to be afraid, and regulators cautious, about injecting patients with
even a modified AIDS virus.

   "It's a human pathogen that's caused a terrible pandemic, so one needs to be
thoughtful about using it, even in a crippled form," said Dr. Eric Poeschla, an
assistant professor of medicine at the University of California at San Diego.

   The Food and Drug Administration, whose approval is required for gene therapy
trials, agreed. "There are a number of scientific questions and safety issues to
be addressed before any of that could go forward," said Dr. Philip Noguchi, the
director of the agency's division of cellular and gene therapies. "We don't
quite know what we should be concerned about because the biological
understanding has not been developed yet."

   The National Institutes of Health held a meeting of experts in March to
explore the use of HIV vectors for gene therapy, which involves inserting genes
for a particular function into a patient's cells. But Noguchi said a wider, more
open public hearing would be held before his agency would consider approving the
first such trial. "The public hasn't really weighed in with its own opinion," he
said.

   It is the very infectiousness of HIV that makes it attractive for gene
therapy, which so far has not lived up to its expectations. People with
hemophilia, for instance, have an inherited genetic defect that prevents them
from making a crucial protein needed for blood clotting. But if enough cells
could be provided with the proper gene, patients could manufacture their own
blood clotting factor.

   To deliver the genes of interest, scientists usually insert them into
debilitated viruses because viruses spread by delivering their own genetic
material into the cells of their target. But gene therapy, which has been tried
for about a decade, has in general failed because it has been impossible to
deliver enough of the genes and to get them to work long enough to make enough
of the required protein.

   In many cases, the viral gene carriers are attacked and destroyed by the
body's immune system. Some of the viruses used so far allow for only transient
production of the protein because they do not incorporate the genes they carry
into the chromosomes of the target cells.

   One of the most commonly used vectors, derived from mouse leukemia virus, can
deliver genes into chromosomes, where, it is hoped, they will operate for a long
time. But this vector can do this only when cells are dividing, making it
difficult to treat diseases in the brain, liver, heart and other organs in which
cells divide rarely if at all. And a promising new vector, based on
adeno-associated viruses, appears safe and somewhat effective, but is limited in
the size of the genes it can carry. HIV, on the other hand, is both cunning at
evading the body's immune defenses and can carry large genes. Most important, it
is one of a small class of viruses, known as lentiviruses, that can incorporate
genes into the chromosomes even of non-dividing cells.

   "Lentiviral vectors are really a new hope in the field of gene therapy," said
Dr. Philippe LeBoulch, assistant professor of medicine at Harvard University and
chief scientific officer of Genetix Pharmaceuticals Inc., a privately held
Massachusetts company planning to use HIV-based vectors in gene therapy.

   Verma's lab has used the vector to incorporate genes into the brain, liver,
muscle, bone marrow and retinal cells of rats and mice. The genes seem to
function for months.

   Still, others say, it is not clear whether the HIV vectors will be efficient
enough to make gene therapy work. "They are still going to have to struggle to
get genes into people, even using an HIV vector," Poeschla said.

   Besides being infectious, the AIDS virus has been extensively studied, so
that scientists know how to modify it. "We know every nucleotide down to the
last base," Verma said.

   His laboratory's latest vector removes six of the nine genes in the AIDS
virus. One big change that is required is that of the virus' protein coat, which
determines which cells it can attach to. The AIDS virus mainly infects certain
white blood cells known as T cells. So scientists have replaced the HIV protein
coat with that of a cattle virus that seems to be able to infect many different
types of human cells.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1665 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1999 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       January 19, 1999 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. E11

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS ENLIST HIV TO FIGHT OTHER DISEASES

BYLINE: By Andrew Pollack 1999, The New York Times

BODY:

   SAN DIEGO -- In a bold but potentially frightening effort to turn one of the
world's most virulent killers into a cure, scientists and biotechnology
companies are trying to tame the AIDS virus and harness it to treat disease.

   The scientists say they have stripped the human immunodeficiency virus of its
ability to cause disease, while leaving intact its ability to infect human
cells. Such a crippled virus, they say, could be used to deliver genes into
human cells for gene therapy.

      Several university scientists and biotechnology companies hope to begin
clinical trials using the modified HIV to carry genes that they hope can be
used to treat diseases such as cancer and hemophilia. At least one attempt
will even be made to use the modified HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, to
treat AIDS itself.
   "It would be ironic to cure AIDS with the AIDS virus," said Dr. Inder
Verma, a professor at The Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego,
who has pioneered the effort to harness HIV for gene therapy. But he added,
"There is a saying that diamond cuts diamond."
   Verma and others involved in such research say it is virtually
inconceivable that anyone treated using the crippled HIV could get AIDS as a
result. The gene carrier, which is known as a vector, not only is missing the
HIV genes that cause disease but also lacks the ability to replicate and
spread in the body, they say.
   But some experts say that in rare instances, disabled viruses can recombine
with genetic material from other viruses or from the person's own cells to
regain the ability to replicate. And even if the actual risks are low,
patients are likely to be afraid, and regulators cautious, about injecting
patients with even a modified AIDS virus.
   "It's a human pathogen that's caused a terrible pandemic, so one needs to
be thoughtful about using it, even in a crippled form," said Dr. Eric
Poeschla, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of California
at San Diego.
   The Food and Drug Administration, whose approval is required for gene
therapy trials, agreed. "There are a number of scientific questions and safety
issues to be addressed before any of that could go forward," said Dr. Philip
Noguchi, the director of the agency's division of cellular and gene therapies.
"We don't quite know what we should be concerned about because the biological
understanding has not been developed yet."
   The National Institutes of Health held a meeting of experts in March to
explore the use of HIV vectors for gene therapy, which involves inserting
genes for a particular function into a patient's cells. But Noguchi said a
wider, more open public hearing would be held before his agency would consider
approving the first such trial. "The public hasn't really weighed in with its
own opinion," he said.
   It is the very infectiousness of HIV that makes it attractive for gene
therapy, which so far has not lived up to its expectations. People with
hemophilia, for instance, have an inherited genetic defect that prevents them
from making a crucial protein needed for blood clotting. But if enough cells
could be provided with the proper gene, patients could manufacture their own
blood clotting factor.
   To deliver the genes of interest, scientists usually insert them into
debilitated viruses because viruses spread by delivering their own genetic
material into the cells of their target. But gene therapy, which has been
tried for about a decade, has in general failed because it has been impossible
to deliver enough of the genes and to get them to work long enough to make
enough of the required protein.
   In many cases, the viral gene carriers are attacked and destroyed by the
body's immune system. Some of the viruses used so far allow for only transient
production of the protein because they do not incorporate the genes they carry
into the chromosomes of the target cells.
   One of the most commonly used vectors, derived from mouse leukemia virus,
can deliver genes into chromosomes, where, it is hoped, they will operate for
a long time. But this vector can do this only when cells are dividing, making
it difficult to treat diseases in the brain, liver, heart and other organs in
which cells divide rarely if at all. And a promising new vector, based on
adeno-associated viruses, appears safe and somewhat effective, but is limited
in the size of the genes it can carry. HIV, on the other hand, is both cunning
at evading the body's immune defenses and can carry large genes. Most
important, it is one of a small class of viruses, known as lentiviruses, that
can incorporate genes into the chromosomes even of non-dividing cells.
   "Lentiviral vectors are really a new hope in the field of gene therapy,"
said Dr. Philippe LeBoulch, assistant professor of medicine at Harvard
University and chief scientific officer of Genetix Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
privately held Massachusetts company planning to use HIV-based vectors in gene
therapy.
   Verma's lab has used the vector to incorporate genes into the brain, liver,
muscle, bone marrow and retinal cells of rats and mice. The genes seem to
function for months.
   Still, others say, it is not clear whether the HIV vectors will be
efficient enough to make gene therapy work. "They are still going to have to
struggle to get genes into people, even using an HIV vector," Poeschla said.
    cm+RDBesides being infectious, the AIDS virus has been extensively
studied, so that scientists know how to modify it. cm DSQWe know every
nucleotide down to the last base,cm DEQ Verma said.
   His laboratorycm EQs latest vector removes six of the nine genes in the
AIDS virus. One big change that is required is that of the viruscm EQ protein
coat, which determines which cells it can attach to. The AIDS virus mainly
infects certain white blood cells known as T cells. So scientists have
replaced the HIV protein coat with that of a cattle virus that seems to be
able to infect many different types of human cells.
   The only genes taken from the HIV itself to make the vector are those that
govern the process by which the viral genetic material is incorporated into
the chromosome of the target cell. These genes are put into cells known as
packaging cells, which produce the actual vectors.
   The vectors themselves -- the particles that would be injected into a
patient -- contain the viral proteins needed to incorporate the therapeutic
gene into the patientcm EQs chromosomes, but they do not contain the genes
that direct the creation of those proteins. So after it incorporates the gene
into one cell, the viral particle cannot go on to direct the cell to produce
more viruses.
-RD>

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1666 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                    January 19, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Start-up fever rages through doctor-inventor

BYLINE: Bill Meyers

BODY:

Harry Gruber and David Friend don't know each other, yet they
have a lot in common. They are serial entrepreneurs. Starting
companies -- one after another -- is their passion. And each has
successfully launched four during his career. Here's a look at
this rare pair and the enterprises they've created.

   Harry Gruber knew he wanted to be an inventor after his first
visit to Thomas Edison's New Jersey lab as a youngster.


   "What amazed me," recalls Gruber, now 46, "was how many things
he was working on at the same time."

   A doctor-turned-serial-entrepreneur, Gruber hasn't invented anything
as earth-shattering as electricity. But he has a host of patents
to his credit. And over the past 12 years, he has started four
public companies while amassing a net worth of $ 35 million.

   Gruber's first commercial forays were in biotechnology, where
his companies tried to develop drugs for AIDS, cancer and heart
disease.

   His most recent enterprise, a $ 1.7 million San Diego firm called
Intervu, is delivering video on the Internet for high-profile
corporate customers such as CNN and MSNBC.

   "Harry just has amazing range," says J. William Grimes, Intervu's
vice chairman and the former CEO of ESPN. "His mind is like a
Web page with about 62 links."

   Adds Ken Ruggiero, Intervu's chief financial officer: "Harry
is trying to change the world. He isn't driven by economics. It's
a belief that you can create a legacy by helping people over time."

   First patent at 27

   Gruber made his first contribution at the age of 27, when he patented
a class of compounds that regulated adenosine, a building block
of DNA.

   The discovery, which took place while he was doing clinical training
at the University of California-San Diego, helped reduce injury
from heart attacks and strokes.

   After failing to interest pharmaceutical companies in the breakthrough,
Gruber, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School,
had to take the entrepreneurial route.

   "There was no other choice," he says.

   In 1986, a group of five wealthy San Diego investors pooled $ 120,000,
and a handful of venture capitalists raised $ 4 million for Gruber's
first company, Gensia.

   The new enterprise had two medical specialties: gene therapy in
the AIDS and cancer area and adenosine research.

   Gruber eventually spun off the gene therapy business into a second
company, Viagene.

   Gensia went public in 1990 and had a market capitalization --
stock price multiplied by number of shares outstanding -- of $ 100
million. Three years later, the company's market cap reached $ 1.5
billion.

   Viagene went public in 1993 with a market cap of $ 100 million.
It was purchased in 1994 by biotechnology giant Chiron for $ 150
million.

   Yet another spinoff

   Meanwhile, Gruber spun off another company from Gensia. Aramed,
his third start-up, focused on strokes and seizures and achieved
a $ 600 million market cap.

   The serial entrepreneur was very busy in the early 1990s. He worked
at Gensia, served on Viagene's board and directed scientific research
at Aramed.

   But he recognized his limitations and hired CEOs for Gensia and
Viagene.

   "I had to turn over control," Gruber says, "because my learning
curve was too steep. Also, biotechnology requires so much capital,
I couldn't have achieved what I wanted without bringing in experienced
people."

   Frustration ultimately set in, however, and Gruber decided to
move from biotechnology to high-technology because none of his
patents had turned into FDA-approved drugs yet.

   "An invention doesn't count unless someone is using it," he
says. "Otherwise, it's just a dream."

   In 1994, Gruber became fascinated with video delivery on the Internet.

   A year later, he crafted patents for the technology and tried
raising money for his fourth company.

   It wasn't easy.

   "Venture capitalists kept asking, 'How does a biotech guy become
a high-tech guy?' " Gruber says. "I met resistance."

   So again, he turned to angel investors, who raised $ 10 million
for Intervu.

   Gruber struck a deal in 1996 that allowed his streaming video
software to plug into Netscape's browser. Big-name customers,
including Lifetime TV and Major League Baseball, quickly hooked
up with Intervu.

   The Internet start-up went public in 1997 with a market cap of
$ 100 million. Intervu's market cap is about $ 300 million today,
though it doesn't expect to generate profits until next year.

   That's all, he says

   After a second -- and unexpected -- career as a serial entrepreneur,
Gruber insists that Intervu is the last company he'll run.

   "This is it," he says. "Intervu will take 20 years to mature.
We're just beginning."

   But Gruber hasn't purged start-up fever from his system.

   "I'll help other people get companies going," he says. "They'll
be getting my time and money."

   After four attempts, Gruber is finally getting what he wanted.

   "I'm seeing my inventions commercialized at last," he says.
"That's the fulfillment of a life's dream."

   The serial entrepreneur continues after a long pause: "I remember
Edison and how much he did, but I never recognized how hard it
was to do."


   Facts, figures about Intervu

   * Based in San Diego

   * 105 employees

   * 1998 revenue (est.): $ 1.7 million

   * Founded in 1995

   GRUBER'S ADVICE: "It's just as hard to accomplish
a small project as a big one, so you might as well work on a big
one."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jeffrey Brown for USA TODAY; Serial entrepreneur: Harry
Gruber's 'amazing range' of talents includes doctor, inventor and Internet video
expert.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1667 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1999 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                    January 18, 1999, Monday 2 STAR EDITION

SECTION: D; Pg. 6 Discovery

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Genetic therapy pioneer seeks to inject fetuses with corrective genes

SOURCE: Knight-Ridder Tribune News

BYLINE: USHA LEE McFARLING

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - Less than a decade old, the pursuit of human gene therapy
already reads like a Homeric epic - a story of immense hope of curing man's ills
thwarted by crushing disappointments.

   Amid predictions that genetic therapy will revolutionize medicine and cure
cancer stands one challenging truth about the technique: It's hard. Very hard.

   The idea, simply, is to inject corrective genes into a patient's body to
replace faulty ones that cause diseases like cystic fibrosis and sickle-cell
anemia. But in nearly every case thus far, the lifesaving genes haven't taken.

   They've been repelled, disabled or simply lost in the body's vast genetic
code. Even the field's father, Dr. W. French Anderson, a once-tireless promoter
of the approach and its promise, has grown weary of failure.

   Now, Anderson is proposing a radical alternative - a new way to evade the
body's defenses and coax a patient's DNA into accepting lifesaving hitchhiker
genes.

   He wants to inject healthy genes directly into fetuses to repair flaws
certain to threaten the unborn child's future. He said he believes that the
metamorphosing biology and feeble immune systems of fetuses may pose fewer
biological barriers.

   But the idea is fraught with questions so new and troubling, researchers and
bioethicists admit they have no idea how to proceed.

   Repairing fetal genes involves charting a course into new medical territory,
a place where mother and child are patient at once and therapy on a single fetus
could accidentally change the reproductive cells - or "germ line" - which
control the characteristics of countless generations of descendants.

   "The boundary has been that we will not do experiments that cross the germ
line," said Dr. Jeremy Sugarman, co-director of medical ethics at the Duke
University Medical Center. "That line is being challenged."

   In 1990, at the National Institutes of Health, Anderson tested gene therapy
on the first human patient: 4-year-old Ashanti DeSilva, who suffered from the
same severe immune disorder that plagued John Travolta in the movie The Boy in
the Plastic Bubble. The experiment was a stunning success.

   Although DeSilva still required medication, she was transformed from a
sickly, housebound toddler into an exuberant child. And Anderson was ranked by
Time magazine, along with Galen, Hippocrates and Louis Pasteur, as one of
medicine's most important physicians.

   Anderson still smiles at the mention of DeSilva, and photos of her - running,
swinging and smiling - adorn some of his publications. But the little girl is
one of the field's notable exceptions. After eight years, 300 clinical trials
and some 3,000 patients, gene therapy has improved the lives of a handful of
people, but it has yet to fully cure a single patient.

   "Our field started with such great promise," said Anderson. "Then it
crashed."

   Crashed may be an overstatement. Last week, two scientific groups reported
successfully treating hemophilia B in mice and dogs with gene therapy in an
article in the journal Nature Medicine. They sent genes into the body aboard a
virus that is not attacked by the immune system.

   Early results from other studies show gene therapy may offer help for cardiac
patients by promoting the growth of new blood vessels around blocked arteries in
humans.

   While researchers more optimistic than Anderson think gene therapy in adults
may finally be on the verge of succeeding in the next several years, the field
has largely been stymied by the body's defenses against invaders and the cells'
reluctance to adopt foreign genes.

   Fetuses pose less of an obstacle, said Anderson, because their budding immune
systems are unlikely to attack the viruses used to carry the new genes and
because growing embryos are full of actively dividing cells likely to embrace
and incorporate new genes as their own.

   Using the therapy early in development also offers the promise of keeping
genetic flaws from causing problems as a fetus grows.

   Because he knew the issue would be contentious, Anderson asked a federal
advisory panel that oversees such research for permission last fall - three
years before his first planned human experiments aimed at treating two rare and
often fatal disorders, alpha-thalassemia and ADA-Deficient Severe Combined
Immune Disorder.

   He is working with colleague Esmail Zanjani to perfect his technique by
injecting genes into the fetuses of large animals such as sheep.

   While no formal decision on whether Anderson should go forward is expected
for two years, scientific experts agreed his experiments should not be approved
until work on animal fetuses is more conclusive.

   "I think the homework still needs to be done," said Dr. Rebecca H. Buckley, a
leading pediatric immunologist from the Duke University Medical Center.

   Others complained that the panel's focus on scientific and clinical issues
overshadowed a larger question. "We should be talking about whether we should be
embarking on this work at all," argued Claire Nader, chairwoman of the
biotechnology watchdog group the Council for Responsible Genetics.

   Nevertheless, said Dr. Jon Gordon, a gene therapy expert at the Mount Sinai
School of Medicine, it would be irresponsible to allow prenatal gene therapy
until it is proven safe for fetus, woman and society. "We have a long way to
go," said Gordon, "before we can get near pregnant women with needles full of
DNA."

GRAPHIC: Photo: University of Southern Californial Medical School Director of
Gene Therapy Dr. W. French Anderson proposes injecting new genes into fetuses;
Knight Ridder Tribune

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1999


                             1668 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          January 18, 1999 Monday All

SECTION: Health and Science Pg. 1 Pulse

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Could drugs put exercise in history's outbox?

BYLINE: JOHN FAUBER

BODY:

   Is exercise on its way to becoming obsolete?

   Don't cancel you r health club membership, but at an accelerating rate,
researchers are announcing breakthroughs that someday may lead to drugs and
therapies that mimic the beneficial effects of exercise.

   All you would have to do is sit back and get fit.


   In August, I brought up this topic after researchers in Texas said their
recent work could lead to the development of a drug that might mimic the
health-promoting effects of aerobic exercise such as running or swimming in
sedentary people.

   Since then, there have been at least two more developments:

   Last month, Science News reported on a new type of gene therapy that appears
to halt the age-related loss of muscle tissue, at least in mice. In humans, the
loss can a mount to 30% of a person's muscle tissue between their 30s and 70s.

   So far, the only "therapy" that can slow down the loss is strength training.

   However, the Science News article reported on researchers from the University
of P ennsylvania School of Medicine who have inserted DNA for a hormonelike
substance known as insulin growth factor 1 (IGF-1), in a virus, which then was
injected into the right legs of young, middle-aged and old mice, which were kept
sedentary for up to nine months.

   The results were startling.

   There was roughly 15% more muscle mass and strength in the right leg in the
younger mice. In the older mice, the effect was even more pronounced: 19% more
mass and 27% more strength in th e treated leg.

   A few weeks earlier, another group of researchers at the University of
Mississippi said that a new type of fat-burning drugs could revolutionize the
treatment of obesity in humans by producing a metabolic effect similar to
exercise.

   The drugs have been shown to break down fat and expend energy by mimicking
the effects of the hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine, two hormones that
prepare the body for strenuous exercise.

   A pill form of the drug s could be on the market in the next five to 10
years, Dennis Feller, chairman and professor of pharmacology at the university's
School of Pharmacy, said in a statement.

   In another development last August, researchers at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas said they have discovered a genetic switch
that tells muscles how to behave.

   The scientists found a molecular pathway that tells muscle fiber to be either
the so-called fast-twitch strength muscle found in weight lifters and sprinters
or the slow-twitch endurance muscle found in aerobic exercisers such as distance
runners.

   "When people go jogging, molecular events happen in the muscle they are
exercising that both enhance their ca pability to exercise further and improve
their health," researcher R. Sanders Williams said in a statement. "We believe
it is possible to design a drug which would have this effect."

   The pace of all these and other breakthroughs doesn't mean that the treadmill
and barbell will become passe.

   Initially, these developments will be used to help the truly ailing, people
with heart disease, muscular dystrophy, diabetes or the old and frail.

   But one wonders if, years down the road, healthy people will have a
dramatically different approach to exercise.

   "Genetics are promising us things," Leon Charash, a child neurologist at
Cornell University Medical College and medical advisor to the Muscular Dystrophy
As sociation, said in an interview.

   However, he said along with the promise of these developments there needs to
be some skepticism. For instance, with the mice leg muscle experiment one big
question is, will it work in humans?


    No one knows.

   For the moment, it's probably best to keep doing things the old fashioned
way.

   Ten years down the road, if exercise drugs replace exercise, you will be that
much ahead of the game.


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999


                             1669 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                          Copyright 1999 The Oregonian
                                 The Oregonian

                   JANUARY 13, 1999 Wednesday SUNRISE EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. A15, RESEARCH NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: CAN CURBING YOUR DIET BENEFIT YOUR BRAIN?

SOURCE: Compiled by RICHARD L. HILL - of the Oregonian staff

BODY:

   Can curbing your diet benefit your brain? Maybe, study says Reducing the
amount of food you eat might help protect your brain against age-related
disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease and improve your
recovery from stroke and other acute injuries to the brain, new research
suggests.

   Researchers at the University of Kentucky's Sanders-Brown Center on Aging
found they could reduce the effects of experimentally induced injuries to the
brain by maintaining rats on reduced diets.

   "It's a leap to extrapolate from animal studies to human diseases,'' said
Mark P. Mattson, professor of anatomy and neurobiology at the University of
Kentucky. But he said that because evidence shows that diet reduction reduces
risk for cardiovascular diseases and cancer, which involve some of the same
cellular mechanisms, "it isn't unreasonable to recommend that people reduce food
intake as a hedge against neurodegenerative diseases.''

   In the study, one group of rats was fed only every other day, consuming 30
percent fewer calories and weighing 20 percent less than a second group whose
diet was not restricted. The researchers then administered toxins that
selectively destroy parts of the brain in ways that mimic the destruction
wrought by neurodegenerative diseases.

   The rats whose diets had been restricted were much more resistant to the
toxins. Food-restricted rats also performed better on learning and memory tests.

   The study's findings were published in the January issue of the Annals of
Neurology.

   NASA study connects solar bursts to gas losses from atmosphere

   Researchers using NASA's Polar spacecraft have found the first direct
evidence that bursts of energy from the sun can cause oxygen and other gases to
gush from Earth's upper atmosphere into space.

   Scientists first saw the effect in September, when a storm from the sun
smacked into the Earth. Using detectors on Polar, they found that the gas flow
out of the upper atmosphere increased substantially when the storm hit.

   The amount of oxygen and other gases lost from the ionosphere amounted to a
few hundred tons, roughly equivalent to the mass of oxygen inside Seattle's
Kingdome.

   Gene therapy shows some promise in correction of bleeding disorder

   Hemophilia patients might benefit from gene therapy that moderates or cures
the bleeding disorder in mice and dogs, according to a study reported in the
January issue of Nature Medicine.

   Tests have shown that a unique strain of hemophiliac dogs injected with
corrected genes produced the blood clotting protein known as factor IX and are
continuing to produce it steadily more than 11/2 years after treatment. Not
making the clotting factor is what causes people and animals with the condition
to bleed. Hemophilia is a genetic disease that leaves 1 in 5,000 boys and men at
risk of spontaneous and life-threatening bleeding.

   "The correction is modest [in the hemophilic dogs], about 1 percent, but we
believe that's enough to justify consideration of clinical trials in humans,''
said Dr. Timothy C. Nichols, associate professor of medicine and pathology at
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's medical school.

   Researchers at the University of Washington and four institutions also were
involved in the study.

   Heavy-element concentration seen in stars circled by giant planets

   A three-year survey shows a group of stars near our solar system have a much
greater allotment of heavy elements than other nearby stars that are like our
sun, says a University of Washington astronomer.

   Guillermo Gonzalez, a UW postdoctoral researcher, said detailed studies of 12
stars orbited by giant, Jupiter-sized planets show concentrations of heavy
elements -- those heavier than hydrogen and helium that are two to three times
greater than the sun.

   The discovery of a link between heavy elements and the presence of giant
planets supports the theory that stars born in heavy-element-enriched
interstellar clouds are more likely to harbor giant planets, Gonzalez said. It
also could mean that solar systems like ours are rare occurrences.

   Gonzalez reported his findings Saturday at the national meeting of the
American Astronomical Society in Austin, Texas.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000


                             1670 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                          Copyright 1999 The Oregonian
                                 The Oregonian

                   JANUARY 13, 1999 Wednesday SUNRISE EDITION

SECTION: GRAPHICS; SCIENCE; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY: INSERTING MODIFIED DNA

SOURCE: Knight Ridder Tribune

BODY:

   Since 1990, gene therapy has been used without great success in an attempt to
treat inherited diseases in children or adults. How it works:

   [TO VIEW THE CHART SEE THE OREGONIAN MICROFILM OR GRAPHICS NOTEBOOK IN THE
NEWS LIBRARY]

   [Shown: Virus; corrective gene; Molecules that bind to specific cell type]

   1. Insert corrective gene [DNA segment] into a virus

   2. Inject virus into patient or give by nasal spray

   3. Virus attaches to target cell

   4. Virus taken into cell, unloads corrective gene

   5. Corrective gene joins cell's DNA

   6. Cell starts making new protein, which eases symptoms of disease


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000


                             1671 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 January 10, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Medical Center Charts Own Course

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE

BODY:

   FREE at last from the county government -- this time apparently for real --
the Westchester Medical Center is setting out to make itself as highly regarded
as any of the nation's most prestigious hospitals.

   "We want to develop the strengths of the hospitals, so that they're
recognized on a national basis," said Edward A. Stolzenberg, president of the
Valhalla-based Medical Center. To do this, he said, the hospital must provide
more and more specialized services, strengthen and add to its research programs
and gain its financial footing in the changing world of managed medical care and
government pressures to control costs.

    Toward these ends, the Medical Center, once run as a department of the
Westchester County government, lobbied successfully to be spun off from the
government and made into a public benefit corporation. This was done last
January, based on an operating agreement worked out in 1997 by the county and
the hospital.  When Andrew J. Spano became County Executive last January, he
pressed for changes in the agreement.

   The result was a new agreement, which late last month was ratified by the
Board of Legislators and signed by Mr. Spano and Alfred B. DelBello, a former
County Executive who is chairman of the Westchester County Health Care
Corporation, which now runs the Medical Center. Key provisions of the 10-year
transition plan provide for a continuation of all existing medical service areas
for the community and a gradual reduction and then elimination of the county's
subsidy to the center. That subsidy will be $26 million this year, a reduction
of $4.6 million from 1998; over 10 years, the new agreement is expected to save
the county government $185 million in subsidy money.

   Also part of the deal is a provision that gives the hospital greater
flexibility to develop for its own use 33 acres of county-owned land near the
hospital on the Grasslands Reservation. Both sides said the new agreement would
work to the benefit of the county and the hospital. Mr. Spano said the new
agreement was a good proposition for both the county and the Medical Center, and
. Mr. Stolzenberg added that the agreement was "better for both sides" than the
1997 agreement.

   The Medical Center does not yet have definite plans for the 33 acres that it
hopes to develop, but there are several options, Mr. Stolzenberg said, all aimed
at giving the Medical Center a steady stream of revenue to take the place of the
county subsidy. The land might be used as a site for an assisted-living complex
(for people who are too well for nursing homes but are in need of some nursing
care); or it could be used as a hotel of sorts for families of patients or for
visiting doctors brought in for certain medical procedures. Another possibility,
he said, is construction of a biotechnology research center.

   The aim, Mr. Stolzenberg said, is to upgrade the Medical Center from a
tertiary care center to one that provides an even higher level of specialized
care, known as quartenary. He explained the difference this way: a tertiary care
center does bone marrow treatment, a quartenary care center does gene therapy; a
tertiary care center does open-heart surgery, a quartenary care center does
heart transplants.

   "We're not very far at all from being there," he said, observing that the
center was awaiting state approval of its application to begin doing heart
transplants.

   Mr. Stolzenberg said that the Medical Center's affiliation with the New York
Medical College, which is owned by the Archdiocese of New York, would in no way
limit what the Medical Center might undertake. "We've had some differences," he
said. "Clearly, choice on abortion has been an issue. We will never change our
position on that. We are there to insure that those services are available." As
to any objections by the Archdiocese to high-tech procedures soon or in the
distant future, Mr. Stolzenberg said that the Medical College has the right to
keep its personnel from providing the services, but in that case the Medical
Center is free to bring in other medical personnel.

   "We're in great shape in a lot of ways," Mr. Stolzenberg said. "The hospital
is filled. We're moving in the right direction, and we have every bit of
potential to be as free and healthy as any such institution can be."

   http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1999


                             1672 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1999 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     January 8, 1999, Friday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: 'Furnace of impeachment' is lit and gives off heat;
Impeachment case / Jurors sworn in

BYLINE: By David M. Shribman, Globe Staff

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - "Hear ye! Hear ye! Hear ye! All persons are commanded to keep
silent, on pain of imprisonment, while the House of Representatives is
exhibiting to the Senate of the United States articles of impeachment against
William Jefferson Clinton, president of the United States."

    With that command, expressed in the booming baritone of James W. Ziglar,
sergeant-at-arms of the Senate, the great American drama that began with a
flirtatious encounter in the White House yesterday moved to its final solemn
stage.

    And the result was an unforgettable tableau, as if a mezzotint from the days
of Andrew Johnson were suddenly made real: 100 senators standing at their
schoolhouse desks, hands raised high, taking a solemn oath to begin the first
presidential impeachment trial in 131 years.

    Even for a city of studied tradition, yesterday's events were remarkable for
their formality. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist arrived at the Senate arch
at the East Front of the Capitol in a Cadillac Fleetwood limousine with license
plate number 10. An honor guard of senators escorted him to the front of the
chamber. The senators took their ancient vow by signing the oath book with new
pens, which they then put away for posterity.

    "All this ceremony - it helps us more fully understand what we're doing
today," said Senator James M. Jeffords, a Vermont Republican. "When you look at
the chief justice sitting there, you know this is a once-in-a-century event."

    Indeed, it was a day for history, not histrionics. No words were permitted.
None, in truth, would have done justice. For an afternoon the Senate put aside
what Representative James A. Garfield, a rising young Republican when President
Johnson was impeached, described at the time as "the insane love of speaking
among public men." The Cave of the Winds, as the Senate sometimes is called, was
quiet.

    No lawmaker who was sworn in to judge the president had ever been involved
in anything like it before. Nor had any of those who yearned to be witnesses to
history even been born the last time the Senate contemplated removing a
president.

    "I don't think we could have ever imagined we would be here today, doing
this," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat.

    Moments before they became members of the biggest jury in the nation, the
senators milled around the floor. There was Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire
Republican, slim and tidy in a pressed gray suit. There was Senator Ernest F.
Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat, his creamy white hair and senatorial
bearing the stuff of Henry Adams' novel of Washington life, "Democracy." There
was Senator Jesse Helms, a North Carolina Republican, hobbling on a cane after
knee surgery.

    It was like old times. But it wasn't old times. The "furnace of
impeachment," as Senator James W. Grimes called it in 1868, was about to be lit,
and it was clear to everyone in the room that the trial of the president was
also the trial of the Senate.

    And then it began, the 24 minutes that transformed Gregg and Hollings and
Helms and their 97 colleagues into the modern-day equivalents of William P.
Fessenden of Maine, Zachariah Chandler of Michigan, and Roscoe Conkling of New
York, senators whose votes and motives in 1868 are still studied by historians.

    The clerk called the roll to determine the presence of a quorom. One by one
the ayes bubbled forth from the men and women of the newly-seated Senate of the
106th Congress. Senator John F. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, responded with
a casual wave to the clerk. Only Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York
Democrat, stood.

    "This was something to see," said Gerard Pastore, 21, a student from
Woodbridge, Va., who managed to snag one of the 50 spectator seats. "It only
happens rarely. Only once every 130 years. Unless they create some great advance
in gene therapy, I probably won't be here in 130 years for the next time." He
spoke for spectators and senators alike.

    And then Senator Strom Thurmond, the president pro tempore of the Senate,
bellowed: "The Senate will come to order. The senators will take their seats."

    Two student pages opened the French doors at the rear of the chamber.
Rehnquist, in black gown with four golden stripes on each arm, began to walk
down the center aisle that separates Democrats from Republicans, and there was a
moment of awkwardness in the room, with a hundred faces befuddled with the same
question: "Should we stand for the chief justice?"

    Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican, leaned forward
tentatively. In the next seat, Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican,
put his hands on his knees, as if to rise to his feet. And in a moment the
entire Senate was standing.

    "I am now ready to take the oath," Rehnquist said.

    He put his left hand on a leather Bible and swore to "do impartial justice
according to the Constitution." He then asked all 100 senators to take the very
same oath, and they did, affirming with an "I do" as each of the hundred names
was called. It came with a whisper from Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Utah
Republican, a quiet assent from Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas
Republican, a simple lip motion from Senator Harry M. Reid, a Nevada Democrat.

    Somewhere a baby wailed. A spectator wheezed. But there was no other sound.
This was a moment none thought would come. All shuddered from it. None could
avoid it.

    "I accept my responsibility," Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana
Democrat, said later, "but for many of us this is a hard day."

    The roll-call continued.

    "I do," said Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, a New Jersey Democrat.

    "I do," said Senator Connie Mack, a Florida Republican.

    "I do," said Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican.

    As a Navy flier and a prisoner of war in Vietnam, McCain had been asked to
do his duty many times. "I just took my oath of office for the third time," he
said in a conversation a few minutes after he was sworn in as a juror. "I
remember the real euphoria the first time I took it. I haven't felt a bit of
that this time."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. AP PHOTO / Chief Justice William H. Rehnuist (center, rear),
who will preside over President Clinton's impeachment trial, was escorted into
the Senate chamber yesterday by Senators (from left front) Ted Stevens, Robert
Byrd, Orrin Hatch, Patrick Leahy, and Olympia Snowe.
2. AP PHOTO/Chief Justice William H. Rehnuist en route to the Senate chamber to
preside over President Clinton's trial.

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 1999


                             1673 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1999 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 8, 1999, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: AN AWESOME DAY UNFOLDS IN 'THE CAVE OF THE WINDS'

BYLINE: DAVID M. SHRIBMAN, THE BOSTON GLOBE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   "Here ye! Hear ye! Hear ye! All persons are commanded to keep silent, on pain
of imprisonment, while the House of Representatives is exhibiting to the Senate
of the United States articles of impeachment against William Jefferson Clinton,
President of the United States."

   With that command, expressed in the booming baritone of James W. Ziglar, the
Mississippi native who is the sergeant-at-arms of the Senate, the great American
drama that began with a flirtatious encounter in the White House moved to its
final solemn stage yesterday. And the result was an unforgettable tableau, as if
a mezzotint from the days of Andrew Johnson were suddenly made real: 100
senators standing at their schoolhouse desks, hands raised high, taking a solemn
oath to begin the first presidential impeachment trial in 131 years.

   Even for a city of studied tradition, yesterday's events were remarkable for
their formality. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist arrived at the Senate arch
at the East Front of the Capitol in a Fleetwood Cadillac limousine with license
plate number 10. An honor guard of senators escorted him to the front of the
chamber. Lloyd John Ogilvie, chaplain of the Senate, prayed that the Senate find
"procedures that will most effectively resolve the grave matters before them and
our nation." The senators who took their ancient vow by signing the oath book
with new pens, which they then put away for posterity.

   "All this ceremony - it helps us more fully understand what we're doing
today," said Sen. James M. Jeffords, R-Vt. "When you look at the chief justice
sitting there, you know this is a once-in-a-century event."

   Indeed, it was a day for history, not histrionics. No words were permitted.
None, in truth, would have done justice. For an afternoon the Senate put aside
what Rep. James A. Garfield, a rising young Republican when President Johnson
was impeached, described at the time as "the insane love of speaking among
public men." "The Cave of the Winds," as the Senate sometimes is called, was
quiet.

   No lawmaker who was sworn in to judge the president had ever been involved in
anything like it before. Nor had any of those who yearned to be witnesses to
history even been born the last time a United States Senate contemplated
removing a president from the White House. The oldest man in the room, Sen.
Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., 96, was born 34 years after the impeachment of Johnson.

   "I don't think we could have ever imagined we would be here today, doing
this," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

   Moments before they became members of the biggest jury in the nation, the
senators milled around the floor casually. There was Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H.,
slim and tidy in a pressed gray suit. There was Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C.,
his creamy white hair and senatorial bearing the stuff of Henry Adams' novel of
Washington life, "Democracy." There was Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., hobbling on a
cane after knee surgery.

   It was like old times. But it wasn't old times. The "furnace of impeachment,"
as Sen. James W. Grimes called it in 1868, was about to be lit, and it was clear
to everyone in the room that the trial of the president was also the trial of
the Senate.

   And then it began, the 24 minutes that transformed Gregg and Hollings and
Helms and their 97 colleagues into the modern-day equivalents of William P.
Fessenden of Maine, Zachariah Chandler of Michigan and Roscoe Conkling of New
York, senators whose votes and motives in 1868 are still studied by historians.

   The clerk called the roll to determine the presence of a quorum. One by one
the "ayes" bubbled forth from the men and women of the newly seated 106th
Congress. Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., responded with a casual wave. Only Sen.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., stood. He shouted his "here," straightened his
coat and sat down.

   "This was something to see," said Gerard Pastore, 21, a student from
Woodbridge, Va., who managed to snag one of the 50 spectator seats. "It only
happens rarely. Only once every 130 years. Unless they create some great advance
in gene therapy, I probably won't be here in 130 years for the next time."

   He spoke for spectators and senators alike.

   And then Thurmond, the president pro tempore of the Senate, bellowed: "The
Senate will come to order. The senators will take their seats."

   Two student pages opened the French doors at the rear of the chamber.
Rehnquist, in black gown with four golden stripes on each arm, began to walk
down the center aisle that separates Democrats from Republicans. In a flight of
whimsy or perhaps out of boredom with basic black, the chief justice had added
the stripes four years ago. A fan of Gilbert and Sullivan's comic operettas, he
modeled the robe on a costume worn by the lord chancellor in a local production
of "Iolanthe."

   When Rehnquist appeared in the Senate chamber, there was a moment of
awkwardness in the room, with a hundred faces befuddled with the same question:
Should we stand for the chief justice?

   Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., leaned forward tentatively. Sen. Mitch McConnell,
R-Ky., in the next seat, put his hands on his knees, as if to rise to his feet.
And in a moment the entire Senate was standing.

   "I am now ready to take the oath," Rehnquist said.

   He put his left hand on a leather Bible and swore to "do impartial justice
according to the Constitution." He then asked all 100 senators to take the very
same oath, and they did, affirming with an "I do" as each of the hundred names
was called. It came with a whisper from Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, a quiet
assent from Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, a simple lip motion from Sen.
Harry Reid, D-Nev.

   Somewhere a baby wailed. A spectator wheezed. But there was no other sound.
This was a moment none thought would come. All shuddered from it. None could
avoid it.

   "I accept my responsibility," Sen. Mary L. Landrieu, D-La., said later, "but
for many of us this is a hard day."

   The roll-call continued.

   "I do," said Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J.

   "I do," said Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla.

   "I do," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. As a Navy flier and a prisoner of war
in Vietnam, McCain had been asked to do his duty many times.

   "I just took my oath of office for the third time," he said in a conversation
a few minutes after he was sworn in as a juror. "I remember the real euphoria
the first time I took it. I haven't felt a bit of that this time."

   The New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999


                             1674 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       JANUARY 5, 1999 Tuesday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: A DRUG HOLDS PROMISE AS HEMOPHILIA-FIGHTER / GENES CORRECT THE
DISEASE'S CAUSE. THE FDA IS CONSIDERING HUMAN TRIALS.

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   A drug that, with a single treatment, can cure the blood disease hemophilia
in mice and control it for many months in dogs is being reported by scientists
at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and in California.

   The drug, which uses genes to correct the underlying cause of the disease, is
under consideration by the Food and Drug Administration for human trials.

   If the drug works in humans, it would be the first effective gene therapy for
a genetic defect, renewing hopes for a new era in the treatment of disease.

   Many scientists were predicting such an era in 1990 when the first patient
was treated for a rare genetic condition. But the hope has worn thin after
scientists rushed to test gene drugs against dozens of diseases in more than 240
clinical trials without finding a single effective agent.

   The research published today in the journal Nature Medicine is particularly
encouraging because it came from two laboratories working independently, and
involved two species of animals with naturally occurring disease rather than
lab-induced simulations.

   The work was reported by Katherine A. High and Roland W. Herzog of Children's
Hospital, and Mark A. Kay of the Stanford University School of Medicine and
Richard O. Snyder of Cell Genesys Inc., of Foster City, Calif.

   About 25,000 Americans have hemophilia. Eighty percent have hemophilia A, and
lack the gene for blood factor VIII, and 20 percent have hemophilia B, and lack
the gene for factor IX. The factors are essential for clotting. Without them,
hemophiliacs run the risk of bleeding to death from minor wounds, and of
suffering internal bleeding and strokes.

   The drug reported on today is effective only in hemophilia B. The factor IX
genetic defect was completely or partially repaired by injecting the missing
genes into the animals' muscles or infusing them into their livers.

   A single treatment resulted in the production of enough factor to prevent
bleeding episodes in the mice and the dogs, a unique colony of hemophiliac
animals maintained by the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

   Dogs treated 18 months ago are still making factor IX, raising the
possibility that a permanent cure in humans may be possible.

   High was reluctant to use the word "cure" in discussing her work, stressing
that human trials have yet to be done and that she did not know if the factor IX
could reach sufficiently high levels for completely normal clotting.

   Kay was not so guarded. He said that his lab cured the mice of hemophilia,
and that he thought there was a "real possibility that we will cure it" in
humans within three to five years. This is the estimated time it would take to
complete clinical trials.

   Ordinarily, scientists are more circumspect in making such predictions on the
basis of animal studies, especially those involving mice. Cures in mice usually
turn out to be failures when the treatment is scaled up for larger animals and
humans.

   But here, the treatment worked just as well in the dogs, which were 800 times
heavier than the mice. Because the average human is only about three or four
times heavier than the dogs, which weighed up to 45 pounds, the increase in drug
dose for humans would not be that great, High said.

   Also, the drugs had no serious side effects, and the more drug the animals
were given, the more factor IX they produced. So theoretically, the drug dose
could be increased in humans until normal blood clotting was achieved.

   The drug High and Kays used consists of a virus called AAV (adeno-associated
viral vector) that had been engineered to carry the gene that produces factor
IX. High injected the AAV into the muscles of five hemophiliac dogs, and Kay
infused it directly into the livers of two hemophiliac dogs.

   Kay said that two hemophiliac dogs normally would experience a combined total
of six or seven bleeding incidents during the nine months these animals have
been observed, but only one occurred. Kay speculated that the bleeding could
have been eliminated by increasing the dose.

   Until recently, most labs used a modified cold virus - adenovirus - to
deliver the genes, but the effects were short-lived because the body's immune
system destroyed the cells infected with the viruses. The patients also became
immune to the viruses, making retreatment ineffective.

   This is why most of the trials conducted during the last nine years failed.

   But the immune system does not attack AAV, which causes no known disease in
humans. Not only does AAV evade attack, but Kay has evidence that it integrates
into the genetic machinery of liver cells, and genes are passed from one
generation of cells to the next, making it likely that the effects of treatment
will last for the life of the patient.

   It is not known if AAV will also integrate into muscle cells. If it does not,
retreatment would be required, probably every few years when the muscle
containing the genes died.

   Although the drug is effective only against hemophilia B, work is under way
to find a drug for hemophilia A. The challenge is that the factor VIII gene is
much larger than the gene for factor IX, and possibly too big to fit inside AAV.

   The current treatment for hemophilia is giving factor VIII or IX when
patients have bleeding episodes. The problem is that it does not prevent
spontaneous internal bleeding, which is painful and can damage joints and cause
death. By maintaining a steady level of the factors in the blood, gene therapy
could avoid these problems, High and Kay said.

   James M. Wilson, director of the Institute for Gene Therapy at the University
of Pennsylvania, said he thought there was a good chance that the hemophilia
work would be the first gene therapy cure.

   Wilson predicted that all the work done in the last five years to understand
the basic science underlying gene therapy would begin to bear fruit next year as
scientists press ahead with clinical trials such as the one proposed for
hemophilia.

   One of the most promising trials is being conducted by Ronald G. Crystal of
Cornell Medical School in New York. Entering its second year, the study is
evaluating a gene drug that promotes the growth of blood vessels around blocked
arteries in heart patients. Using adenoviruses, the researchers implant the
genes into the heart muscle. So far, 21 patients have been treated, with
encouraging results. Preliminary studies showed more blood getting to the heart
after treatment, and many patients said that they could be more physically
active without developing chest pain, a classic symptom of clogged arteries.

   Crystal shared Wilson's optimism, saying that gene-therapy techniques have
become so diverse that scientists can "mix and match" vectors and diseases.

   They can use adenoviruses for growing blood vessels, for instance, because
the vessels grow quickly and the genes do not have to function for more than a
week, and use AAV for genetic diseases where they have to keep going for the
patient's lifetime.

   Wilson's optimism is based on two major developments in the last few years:
the emergence of AAV, and the discovery of a way to turn genes on and off once
they have entered the patient's cells.

   This is particularly important in diseases such as diabetes or anemia, where
therapy could be dangerous or ineffective if the genes are too active or not
active enough.

   When Wilson started building the institute at Penn in 1993, he and most other
scientists were using adenoviruses, but soon discovered that the virus was not
tolerated by the immune system.

   No matter how Wilson and the others tried to reengineer adenoviruses to make
them immunologically less visible, the immune system always detected them,
bringing the gene therapy to a halt after a few weeks.

   But then it was discovered that AAV did not trigger immune reactions, and
laboratories all over the country started retooling.

   Even so, many scientists are continuing to press ahead with adenoviruses.

   Penn scientists Steven M. Albelda and Stephen L. Eck are using them in human
cancer trials.

   Eck has treated 13 patients who have brain cancer. Although eight have died
from the quickly fatal disease, three are doing better than expected, including
one who is without apparent disease 16 months after treatment.

   Albelda has treated 29 patients with the lung cancer mesothelioma, and a few
are doing better than expected, but the numbers are too small to be
statistically significant. One problem has been getting the genes into cancer
cells buried deep inside tumors.

   Albelda and Eck said that none of the patients experienced serious side
effects from the treatments even though current drug doses are up to 1,000 times
higher than the amount given to the first patients in the trials.

   Not wanting to bet on the wrong horse, Wilson is moving ahead on many fronts.
He said that he hopes to start human trials this year using AAV against one form
of muscular dystrophy and to treat cancer that has spread from the colon to the
liver. And he is continuing to use adenoviruses to treat cystic fibrosis in
trials that have been going on since 1993.

   The CF treatments have proved to be safe despite large increases in the
amount of drugs given, but the immune system is making it difficult to provide
the long-term therapy that CF patients need.

   Wilson said laboratory studies suggest that AAV might also work in CF, and he
is considering using this vector to attack the lung disease.

   Looking back on his five years as head of the gene institute, Wilson said
that the first couple of years were very exciting as they developed adenovirus
vectors and started the first human trials. The next couple of years were
discouraging, with the discovery of how big a problem the immune system was and
unsuccessful efforts to fashion "stealth" adenoviruses that could evade the
system.

   Now Wilson is once again excited, anticipating the breakthroughs that he was
expecting a few years ago.

   "I never anticipated during that time," Wilson said, "that we would have a
vector that performs as well as AAV does."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
Mark A. Kay of the Stanford University School of Medicine is among those whose
research is being reported today. He said there was a "real possibility" of
curing hemophilia within three to five years. (KEVIN SULLIVAN, Associated Press)

Katherine A. High of Children's Hospital stressed that much more work had to be
done before there could be talk of a cure. (BONNIE WELLER, Inquirer Staff
Photographer)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002


                             1675 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1999 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            January 5, 1999 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: HEALTH&FITNESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy may prevent muscle loss in the elderly

BYLINE: Susan Okie, WASHINGTON POST

BODY:

   Researchers reported this week that they have successfully used gene therapy
in mice to prevent age- related loss of muscle strength, and they predict that
the technique may work equally well in elderly people.

    The experimental treatment, which has not yet been tested in humans or other
primates, involves injecting muscles with a genetically engineered virus that
has had most of its own genes removed and replaced with genes for manufacturing
a hormone-like messenger protein. The messenger, called insulin- like growth
factor 1 (IGF-1), induces muscle repair and regeneration.

    Loss of strength and muscle mass has long been viewed as an inescapable part
of aging. It is also a prominent feature of such diseases as muscular dystrophy.
Researchers have experimented with administering hormones, including growth
hormone and testosterone, to prevent or reverse muscle loss in the elderly, with
varying success. However, there are concerns that taking such hormones could
promote growth of some cancers as well as posing other health risks.

    The gene-therapy treatment may offer a strategy for boosting muscle strength
without such hazards because it doesn't elevate blood levels of IGF-1 or other
hormones, said H. Lee Sweeney, a professor of physiology at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia. "You don't want abnormal growth
of tissue in general," he said. "Muscle is where you would like growth."

    He expressed concern, however, that if the new treatment proves safe and
successful in humans, it might be sought by athletes eager for a competitive
edge or by people who merely want well-muscled bodies without exercise.

    Sweeney, who led a team from Penn and Massachusetts General Hospital,
reported the findings this week in San Francisco at the annual meeting of the
American Society for Cell Biology. The study was published in a December issue
of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Science.

    Sweeney said in an interview that when the experimental treatment was given
to mice whose age was approximately equivalent to 60 years in a human, it
restored their muscle strength to that of young adult mice.

    Normal age-related changes in muscle include loss of mass, loss of
contractile strength and selective loss of the fastest-working muscle fibers.
Muscle cells cannot divide, so they are repaired and maintained by other cells
in muscles called satellite cells, which divide and produce new cells that fuse
with existing muscle cells to repair damage. As animals age, however, satellite
cells - though still healthy - perform their job less actively.

    "Somehow the muscle is not signaling them anymore to undergo divisions and
thus repair the muscle," Sweeney said.

    The experimental treatment apparently works by turning up the signal.
Researchers used a virus called adeno-associated virus, which often infects
humans but produces no known disease, and removed the genes that the virus uses
to make copies of itself. They inserted the gene for IGF-1, the messenger that
stimulates satellite cell activity, as well as a promoter gene that would boost
manufacture of the messenger. They then injected the gene-carrying virus into
the hind limbs of mice. Several months later, they killed the mice, removed a
major hind limb muscle, and measured its size and strength in treated and
untreated animals. They also measured IGF-1 levels within the treated muscle.

    In young adult mice - treated at two months of age and examined at six
months of age - the muscle's average mass increased by 15 percent and its
strength increased by 14 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007


                             1676 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1999 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                            January 03, 1999, Sunday

SECTION: News; Pg.  24

LENGTH: 3854 words

HEADLINE: 50 NEW YORKERS TO WATCH IN 1999

BYLINE: BY DAVE SALTONSTALL

BODY:


   As New York City slouches toward the millennium, it's time to take stock of
who's hot and who's not in 1999. As in any other year, there are bound to be
surprises, people who come out of nowhere. Who, for instance, might have
predicted last New Year's that a lowly White House intern would shake the
Republic to its roots in 1998? Not us.

   But we did foresee the rise of Yankee standout Ricky Ledee and the fall of
reputed Gambino crime boss John A. (Junior) Gotti. We told you to keep an eye on
Geraldine Ferraro, who days later announced her candidacy for Senate, and on
Lara Shriftman, a then little-known publicist who ended up on the cover of New
York magazine last month.

   This year, as always, some are budding stars on the cusp of fame. Others are
well-established politicians or celebrities who like it or not are coming back
for more. Writer Dave Saltonstall looks at the Daily News' 50 New Yorkers to
watch in 1999:

   1. Rudy Giuliani, mayor

   Keeping an eye on Rudy is always a full-time job, but following the bouncing
mayor will be even more challenging than usual in 1999. Barred by term limits
from a third mayoral campaign, Giuliani is clearly running. But for what? Last
month, he shifted his fund-raising strategy to steer more money toward a federal
Friends of Giuliani committee that could be tapped for a Senate or presidential
campaign.

   2. Richie Adubato, New York Liberty coach

   Yes, he's a man. But with nearly 20 years of NBA coaching experience
including four seasons as an assistant Knicks coach under Hubie Brown no one
seems to be protesting Adubato's recent appointment as head coach of the
Liberty, New York's contribution to the WNBA especially now that the NBA is a
no-show. Says Adubato, the fifth male coach in the league: "When you've been
coaching as long as I have . . . all you want is players that give 110%. It
doesn't matter if they are boys or girls, men or women."

   3. Alice Rodd O'Rourke, director New York New Media Association

   Her father, Andrew O'Rourke, is a former Westchester County executive who
once ran for governor against Mario Cuomo. But his daughter is making strides of
her own as the new head of the New York New Media Association. Since taking the
helm in February, membership has jumped from 2,100 to 3,200, a number she
expects to rise to 6,000 in 1999. In short, no one is doing more to establish
and keep vibrant New York's burgeoning new media industry.

   4. Brian Cohen, executive director, New York City's Year 2000 Project

   As head of the mayor's 30-person Project 2000 office, it is the 32-year-old
Cohen's job to make sure that the city's 709 critical computer systems are not
tripped up by the so-called Y2K bug, which will strike computers everywhere at
midnight Dec. 31, 1999. If Cohen fails, chaos will reign: subways won't run,
traffic lights won't work, benefits won't get paid. But Cohen predicts a smooth
transition.

   5. Edward Conlon, NYPD cop and writer

   A 1987 Harvard graduate and a city cop for the last five years, Conlon has
lit up The New Yorker for the last few years with insightful reports on New York
crimefighting, written under the pseudonym Marcus Laffey. But his cover was
blown last month, when it was announced that Conlon, 35, had signed a $ 1
million book deal to write a memoir of his work as a city cop.

   6. Stacy Johnson, designer

   She's a former teen model who worked for such fashion powerhouses as Calvin
Klein, The Limited and Cynthia Rowley. But now this Parsons School of Design
grad has gone out on her own with a cozy new boutique, stacia new york, on
increasingly hip Smith St. in Brooklyn. Her dresses, skirts, sweaters and knit
tops which she describes as "sexy, yet feminine" are rich in color, from deep
blues to soft shades of periwinkle and pink.

   7. Lawrence Otis Graham, lawyer and author

   In 1992, the Princeton-educated Graham gave up his tailored suits and $
105,000-a-year salary for a busboy's uniform at the all-white Greenwich Country
Club, an experience he used to write a famously scathing article for New York
magazine about the racism he encountered there. Now Graham, 36, is turning his
sights on the black upper class with a new book, "Our Kind of People," due later
this year from HarperCollins. He also is known to be mulling a political career.

   8. Candace Carpenter, founder, iVillage.com

   Lots of people try to find success on the World Wide Web, but few succeed.
And hardly any rise as high or as fast as Carpenter, 46, who since 1995 has
raised $ 67 million in capital for iVillage.com, one of the first online sites
devoted exclusively to women. With a staff of more than 200 spread across two
buildings in Manhattan's Silicon Alley, iVillage boasts an astonishing 77
million page views per month, offering information on everything from child
rearing to shopping to careers.

   9. Jerry Seinfeld, comic

   Now that his TV show is over and his standup days are on hold, what's the
world's richest comic to do? Professionally, his pursuits seem limited at the
moment to filming commercials, but he has publicly mused about starting his own
ad agency. As his TV mom would have asked, "Jerry, when are you gonna get a real
job?"

   10. Peter Kohlmann, executive producer, Times Square 2000

   The last time Kohlmann threw a party, he staged a $ 4.2 million parade
through the city's Canyon of Heroes for 24,000 American troops returning from
the Persian Gulf War. But even that extravaganza pales in comparison to his next
assignment: the city's millennium-breaking Times Square New Year's Eve
celebration. More than 1 million people are expected to show up for a party that
will be seen on TV by billions.

   11. Brent Carver, Broadway actor

   The story of a Jewish man who gets lynched in Georgia in 1915 might not sound
like fertile ground for a Broadway musical, but in the case of "Parade" which
opened last month at Lincoln Center it is. And the Canadian-born Carver, who
plays the doomed Leo Frank, is owed much of the credit, say critics. Carver, 43,
won a Tony Award for his performance as an inspired gay window dresser in "Kiss
of the Spider Woman," and odds are he'll win another for "Parade," directed by
Broadway veteran Harold Prince.

   12. Elaina Scotto, restaurateur

   When First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton needed an intimate setting for a
private reception last year, she called Fresco, the 52nd St. restaurant owned by
31-year-old Scotto, her mom, Marion, and older sis Rosanna Scotto (yes, the 10
o'clock news anchor for the local Fox affiliate). Now the restaurant's high-end
treats will be made available for those with a little less time and money.
Opening this March is Fresco on the Go, a takeout and catering shop next door.

   13. Vinny Testaverde, Jets quarterback

   When Testaverde was a kid growing up in Elmont, L.I., he had a poster of
famed Jets quarterback Joe Namath on his wall. Now Testaverde has become a famed
Jets quarterback himself, leading the team of his youth to its first division
title since 1968, when Namath was calling signals in the old AFL. The only
question now: Can Vinny take us all the way?

   14. Daymond John, designer

   Six years ago, John, then 23, went searching for a suitable hat and found
none, so he responded by designing his own. The result: Fubu (For Us, By Us),
now a $ 200 million hip-hop apparel business that runs from hats to trousers,
shirts to shoes. Fans include rappers LL Cool J and Snoop Doggy Dogg. Bright
colors, bold logos and oversize styling are the trademarks of the line, which
John originally crafted in the basement of his mother's Queens house.

   15. Kristin Chenoweth, actress

   She's only 4-feet, 10-inches tall, but already Chenoweth has picked up some
outsize reviews as Charlie Brown's younger sister, Sally, in the musical "You're
a Good Man, Charlie Brown." The remake of the 1967 play is due to hit Broadway's
Ambassador Theatre on Jan. 23. Her song, "My New Philosophy," is said to be a
show-stopping gem.

   16. Lyor Cohen, CEO of Def Jam Records

   The one-time road manager of rap pioneers Run-DMC, Cohen and his Def Jam
stable now boast such rap superstars as LL Cool J, The Beastie Boys and DMX. But
Cohen's next gig is expected to be among the world's largest. Reports have him
stepping in as president of Universal Music Group, the company to be formed by
the merger of PolyGram and Universal music groups. When fully combined, the
company is expected to account for 25% of all music sold around the world.

   17. Alphonse (Allie Boy) Persico, mobster

   Law enforcement officials say this college-educated wiseguy is already
running day-to-day rackets for his jailed dad, former Colombo family crime boss
Carmine (Junior) Persico, who would like to see his son officially installed as
head of family business, possibly in 1999. His mob credentials are certainly
stellar: a former St. John's University student who served seven years for
racketeering before beating a separate murder and racketeering charge, the young
Persico is considered a much smarter, much more discreet version of rival boss
John A. (Junior) Gotti.

   18. Andrew Cuomo, U.S. secretary of housing and urban development

   The oldest son of the former governor needs to decide this year if he is
going to run for Senate or wait to see whether his good friend Al Gore gets his
hoped-for promotion. Cuomo began last year insisting he would not run for Senate
but ended up saying he might.

   19. Shane Spencer, Yankee

   This 26-year-old left fielder for the world championship Yanks showed up at
the end of last season and clubbed 10 homers in just 67 regular-season at-bats
including three grand slams before homering twice against Texas in their
division series. Then Spencer went cool, going 1-for-10 before hitting the
bench, only to return to slug a key double in the World Series. It's a
performance that begs the question: Can this kid go the distance, or is he just
a one-hit or 12-hit wonder?

   20. Landon and Heath Slane, jewelry designers

   These two sisters founded Slane & Slane Designs in 1995 and wasted litle time
establishing themselves as the jewelry makers of choice for New York's rich and
well-connected. Celebrity clients include Oprah Winfrey, songstress Sheryl Crow,
actress Laura Dern and actor Billy Bob Thornton. Inspired by the classical
antiquity of Greece and Rome, the Slanes' solidly constructed silver rings,
bracelets and necklaces are simple yet elegant.

   21. Randy Levine, deputy mayor

   As City Hall's point man on economic development, Levine may be the closest
thing alive to legendary public-works czar Robert Moses. Levine's 1999 agenda
includes moving the New York Stock Exchange, fixing Columbus Circle, getting the
Hudson River Park up and running and settling on a plan for Governors Island.

   22. Floyd Flake, pastor

   Since he left Congress in November 1997 to tend full-time to his ever-growing
flock at Allen African Methodist Epsicopal Church in southeast Queens,
politicians of both parties have been knocking on Flake's door, hoping to woo
him in their direction. That's no surprise. A potent fund-raiser who once called
himself a "Clinton Democrat" while still endorsing Rudy Giuliani, Flake, 53, is
often mentioned as a possible mayoral contender in 2001.

   23. Laurie Giddins, vice president, Rainbow Media Holdings

   Giddins is the impresario behind three new cable channels MSG Metro Guide,
MSG Learning Center and MSG Traffic that are transforming cable dials all over
town. Already available to Cablevision's 2.4 million New York area subscribers,
the three supersharp news and information channels are due to hit Time Warner's
1 million-plus homes starting Jan. 28.

   24. Patricia Duff and Ron Perelman

   Last year, it was the Wildensteins. But this year's winners in the most
bitter, over-the-top divorce sweepstakes are clearly Perelman and Duff, whose
child custody suit burst into the public eye for the first time last month.
She's a "paranoid" shrew who has fired 18 nannies since the couple's 3-year-old
daughter was born, says he. He's a physically abusive control freak who wants
round-the-clock security for his little girl, says she.

   25. Roberto Ramirez, political boss

   Of all the city's political bosses, no one wields more clout than this Bronx
Democrat. With an almost evangelical love for party politics, he has dealt with
dissident factions and rebuilt the famous Bronx political machine still hurting
from years of scandals. Not bad for a fomer janitor who could barely speak
English when he came to New York from Puerto Rico in 1969.

   26. Patrick Ewing, Knicks center

   The NBA will recover, someday, from this year's lockout, but will Ewing? As
president of the NBA Players' Association, it is Ewing's job to carry the weight
of this dispute for his players, but the Knicks star center has seemed
remarkably tone deaf. He recently commented that his players who make a minimum
of $ 275,000 a year are just "fighting for survival." This despite Ewing's
current $ 68 million contract.

   27. Rudy Crew, schools chancellor

   In August, the Board of Ed gave Crew a 25% raise and a four-year extension of
his contract, saying he had vastly improved city schools. But then Crew
reluctantly released data in November showing that third and sixth-grade reading
scores had dropped more than four points across the city in tests given the
previous spring. Almost simultaneously, the state identified 97 failing city
schools, the most ever. For an educator who has promised to deliver a
"performance-driven" system, Crew's own performance soon might be raising a few
questions.

   28. Tamara Yeardye, shoe maven

   As the managing director of Jimmy Choo, the city's newest shoe store to the
stars, it is Yeardye's job to keep the likes of Madonna, the duchess of York,
Meg Ryan, Raquel Welch and Courtney Love on their feet and looking good. All are
clients. A former stylist at Mirabella magazine, Yeardye opened the first Jimmy
Choo store in the U.S. in November 1997 at 645 Fifth Ave., where you, too, now
can spend $ 300 to $ 1,000 on a pair of seductively shaped heels.

   29. Dr. Savio Woo

   As director of Mount Sinai's Institute for Gene Therapy and Molecular
Medicine, Woo is on the leading edge of gene therapy. His procedure for treating
colon, brain and prostate cancer by injecting patients with "suicide" genes
which kill cancer without harming healthy tissue is raising new hopes.

   30. Dr. Irwin Redlener, vice president, Montefiore Medical Center

   Sometime this year, Montefiore is expected to break ground on its new $ 100
million art Children's Hospital, a project spearheaded by Redlener. The 106-bed
facility, located at Montefiore's main Bainbridge Ave. campus, will serve as hub
of a sophisticated network of 35 affiliated clinics throughout the Bronx and
lower Westchester County.

   31. Randi Weingarten, president, United Federation of Teachers

   As the newly elected head of the city's Muncipal Labor Committee, an umbrella
group of city unions, it will be Weingarten's job to galvanize the city's unions
in the wake of the District Council 37 scandal. Weingarten, 41, is a former Wall
St. lawyer who has vowed to clean things up.

   32. Joe Hoffman, Transit Authority VP

   Now that the straphanging public is calling upon the Transit Authority to
spend its $ 379 million surplus on improving bus and subway service, the TA
suits are likely calling upon Joe Hoffman. This motorcycle-riding,
up-from-the-ranks Bronx native is a former electrician who is now the TA's
senior vice president in charge of subways. There's nothing he does not know
about subways an expertise that should come in handy now that 625,000 more
passengers ride the city's system every day since the introduction of the
MetroCard.

   33. James (Doc) Savage, acting president, Patrolmen's Benevolent Assocation

   Savage, who will run for his union's presidency in June, is quickly
developing a reputation as the city's most aggressive labor leader. He recently
called on Mayor Giuliani to reopen contract talks with the PBA after it became
clear that the city's no-pay-raise contract with District Council 37 which
became the basis for similar deals with the PBA and other city unions was
grossly tainted by voter fraud. "My people are angry," says Savage.

   34. Monica Lewinsky, former White House intern

   She may be the most overwatched person of 1998, but the world has yet to see
and hear Lewinsky talk on camera. That is due to change in February, when
Lewinsky grants her first-ever TV interview, to ABC's Barbara Walters.

   35. Matt Foreman, executive director, Empire State Pride Agenda

   Watch for Foreman and his group to make an all-out lobbying effort to pass
New York state's hate crimes bill. The bill, which if passed would increase
penalties for attacks committed because of a person's race, gender or sexual
orientation, has been stalled in Albany for 10 years, making New York one of
only nine states without such a law.

   36. Alicia Sams, independent film producer

   The 34-year-old Sams is turning her eye this year to ethnic New York. She is
putting the finishing touches on director Nelson Hume's "Sunburn," a
coming-of-age feature about a gang of Irish kids who spend the summer waiting
tables in Montauk, and will will follow that with "Johnny Come Lately," a
prodigal son tale about a failed Los Angeles restaurateur who returns to
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to take over his Italian family's funeral parlor.

   37. Arthur Schwartz, lawyer

   Most know Schwartz as the crusading lawyer behind the brave union leaders who
first blew the whistle on corruption in District Council 37. But Schwartz has
been fighting the good fight for years on behalf of other reform-minded
unionists among them Carlos Guzman, the World Trade Center carpet cleaner who
has been trying for years to bring change to Gus Bevona's Local 32B-32J, the
city's moribund doormen's and commercial cleaners' union.

   38. Walter Schubert, Wall Street executive

   The first openly gay member of the New York Stock Exchange, Schubert started
the Gay Financial Network Web site (gfn.com) earlier this year. "It's important
to understand that what keeps gays and lesbians in the closet is fear and
economic insecurity," says Schubert, who sees GFN as a source for personal and
economic empowerment, a place where investors can hone their financal skills,
seek advice and handle transactions with gay-friendly professionals.

   39. Bernie Williams, New York Yankees, center fielder

   With his new seven-year, $ 87.5 million contract, Williams will be pulling
down a colossal $ 97,600 every time he takes the field for the Yankees. With
that said, there's really only one question on Williams for 1999: Is he worth
it?

   40. Mike Piazza, New York Mets, catcher

   Rescued from obscurity by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 62nd round of the
1989 draft, Piazza is now one of the highest-paid players in baseball and
certainly the highest-paid in New York with a seven-year, $ 91 million contract
for the Mets. Clearly, the question for Piazza is the same as for Williams: Is
he worth it?

   41. Chuck Dolan Sr., Cablevision Systems Corp.

   As king of the Cablevision empire, Dolan's holdings already include the New
York Knicks, the New York Rangers, Radio City Music Hall and Madison Square
Garden. Now he is said to be eying George Steinbrenner's New York Yankees, a
team that some reports have Dolan buying early this year for up to $ 600
million. That would give Dolan a near monopoly on New York sports teams, which
may or may not be good for fans.

   42. Nell Merlino, publicist

   As the creator of the Ms. Foundation's Take Your Daughters to Work Day,
Merlino has already secured her spot in the pantheon of public relations gods
and goddesses. But this 45-year-old daughter of a former New Jersey state
senator is not resting on her laurels. Due this spring is her next big idea:
Broad Confidence in Women, a new, nonprofit organization that will build a
national, multi-million-dollar loan fund with women.

   43. Mel Weiss, attorney

   Last year, Weiss took on three Swiss banks accused of plundering the accounts
of Jews killed in the Holocaust and, after much international wrangling, won an
unprecedented $ 1.25 billion settlement. This year, the pro bono Weiss will
focus on getting the money, a step that, if nothing else, should improve the
livelihoods of many Holocaust survivors here in New York City.

   44. Charles Matkin, yogi

   His private client list is jammed with CEOs and celebs, as are his classes at
Yoga Zone's downtown studio. But soon, the wisdom and flexibility of this
27-year-old Iowa native will be available to millions: Matkin will be one of the
hosts of the Yoga Zone's new daily TV show, which will start broadcasting this
month on Fox televsion network's FiTV.

   45. Lika Volkov, fashion designer

   This 22-year-old, Ukrainian-born designer turned loads of heads when she
debuted her revealing Antilika collection at last year's Gen Art's Fresh Faces
in Fashion show. Her trademark is lots of eye-popping holes, mostly in that one
place where the zipper usually goes. "I'm not thinking sexy or erotic when I'm
creating my clothes," says Volkov.

   46. Donald Trump, real estate developer

   Trump's plans to build the world's tallest residential building at 48th St.
and First Ave. has the United Nations and much of the rest of the neighborhood
at war with him. Expect a world-class battle.

   47. Jerry Shallo, restaurateur

   The owner of Le Bar Bat on W. 57th St., Shallo is putting the finshing
touches on Iguana New York, due to open on W. 54th St. later this month. The new
eatery will feature border cuisine from Texas and north Mexico. But the really
hot part will be the restaurant's 5,000-square-foot dance floor, which he hopes
will revitilize the concept of dinner and dancing.

   48. Queen Esther Marrow and the Harlem Gospel Singers

   Queen Esther, a former New Yorker, has performed for more than 3.5 million
Europeans, including Pope John Paul. But she is due to return home in 1999,
starting with a month-long appearance at Ford's Theatre in Washington, with
plans for a nationwide tour to follow. New York dates are still up in the air,
but Queen Esther plans to make a royal entrance at some point.

   49. Petr Nedved, New York Rangers

   If there is to be a resurgence for the fallen Rangers, this Czech native will
have to be the heart of it. Nedved originally joined the Rangers in 1994, but
then-captain Mark Messier was less than welcoming. Now Nedved is being treated
with more respect, as he should be. In the first four games after Nedved arrived
from Pittsburgh on Nov. 25, the Rangers' points-per-game average jumped from 2.4
to 3.75.

   50. Ira Rennert, industrialist

   Once upon a time, Rennert, 63, was just another low-profile billionaire in
the Hamptons. Then he decided to build the world's largest private residence a
66,000-square-foot, 29-bed, 29-bathroom behemoth in Southhampton's Sagaponack
section and now everyone knows his name. A lawsuit has been filed, arguing that
the mansion must be a resort or religious retreat masquerading as a residence. A
decision is forthcoming.


GRAPHIC: 1. Rudy Giuliani: Running for what?

   2. Richie Adubato: A man among women

   9. Jerry Seinfeld: When are you gonna get a real job?"

   16. Lyor Cohen:The music man

   20. Landon (l.) and Heath Slane: Jewelry designers for the rich and famous

   22. Floyd Flake: 2001, a mayoral odyssey?

   26. Patrick Ewing: Will he ever recover?

   31. Randi Weingarten: Ready to clean up

   34. Monica Lewinsky: We'll catch her on camera

   40. Mike Piazza: Worth it?

   41. Chuck Dolan Sr.: The new boss?

   44. Charles Matkin: In a zone of his own

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1999


                             1677 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1999 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    January 2, 1999, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Controlled gene therapy demonstrated in animals; Three-part system has
on-off switch activated by drug

SOURCE: NEWSDAY

BODY:


   By designing a special gene that can be turned on and off as needed, and then
making it work in live animals, researchers in Pennsylvania said this week that
they have taken a vital step toward gene therapy.

   Scientists at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine have tailored
a genetic system so that it can be controlled from outside the animal by giving
doses of a drug, rapamycin, according to Dr. James Wilson and his colleagues.

   The three-part system has been shown to work in mice and monkeys, and has
continued working for months. This suggests that it will probably work in humans
with serious genetic diseases.

   "This is an important step toward controlled gene therapy," Wilson said in an
interview Thursday. "We think it will expand the scope of gene therapy, and make
it safer, because we have a way to turn it off."

   Dr. W. French Anderson, who has pioneered the research on gene therapy, said
Wilson's report in the journal Science yesterday "is very exciting. It's very
nice work. It's the first I'm aware of with in vivo regulated gene expression."

   In other words, it's the first time that an extra gene has been inserted into
healthy live animals that is fully controllable, its activity capable of being
turned up, down, on and off.

   Treating human diseases

   Anderson, of the University of Southern California Medical School in Los
Angeles, said the fact that Wilson's system has been made to work, and has kept
working, in monkeys "is very significant, because it means it should work
clinically" -- in human patients.

   The goal of such research is to find ways to defeat a number of inherited
diseases that have essentially been unapproachable. Inherited maladies such as
sickle-cell anemia, hemophilia and Lesch-Nyhan syndrome have resisted treatments
and cures because they are caused by gene mutations -- genetic errors -- that
cannot yet be corrected. As a rule, such inherited diseases cannot even be
treated.

   A few genetic diseases, such as PKU (phenylketonuria), can be ameliorated by
manipulating a child's diet to avoid severe mental retardation. Hemophilia can
be partially controlled by injections of blood-clotting factors. And some inborn
ailments can be cured by drastic measures such as bone-marrow transplants or
liver transplants.

   Two genes and two viruses

   In the encouraging new experiments, Wilson and his colleagues used two kinds
of genes. One makes the protein they want to supply to the body, erythropoietin
(EPO), and the other gene is needed to activate the first gene. The genes are
engineered into separate viruses, which are then mixed together and injected
into the animals' muscles.

   After the viruses have been injected, and the genes have gone into muscle
cells, however, the system remains dormant until the animal is given the drug
rapamycin. The drug causes the two genes to work together so that they begin
making the protein, EPO. If the researchers stop supplying the drug, the gene
system stops working.

   Their new gene control system works so well, Wilson said, that the amount of
EPO being made can be precisely controlled by the amount of rapamycin given. EPO
is a hormone-like factor that stimulates production of red blood cells. It is
already a commercial product used to treat anemia.

   Rapamycin is already a marketed drug, used mainly for immune suppression. But
the doses used in the animal experiments are so low that normal immune function
is not affected, Wilson said.

   "When we gave rapamycin, it induced the gene and did everything we wanted it
to do," Wilson said. When they stopped giving rapamycin, the gene stopped making
EPO. "And when we gave more of the drug, it expressed more of the protein,"
Wilson said.

   The virus vehicles used to carry the genes into muscle cells are engineered
versions of the benign AAV -- adeno-associated virus -- which causes no human
diseases, Wilson said.

   Numerous other research teams, including Anderson in California, are working
to tailor AAV for similar gene therapy experiments.

   Pub Date: 1/02/99

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999


                             1678 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1999 Times Mirror Company
                               Los Angeles Times

                    January 2, 1999, Saturday, Home Edition

SECTION: Calendar; Part F; Page 24; Entertainment Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND TV;
 LOOKING BACK AT THE YEAR IN POLITICS, NEWS

BYLINE: FRANK TORREZ

BODY:


   Today

   "Today": dating for seniors; Nick Nolte; sleep; keeping resolutions, 5 a.m.
NBC.

   "Evans, Novak, Hunt & Shields": Rep. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), 2:30 p.m. CNN.

   "John McLaughlin's One on One: computers in 2000; nuclear weapons, 2:30 p.m.
KCET.

   "Tony Brown's Journal": the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, 3:30 p.m. KCET.

   "Capital Gang": Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), 4 p.m. CNN.

   "McLaughlin Group": year in review (Part 2 of 2), 6:30 p.m. KNBC.

   "Larry King Weekend": former President Jimmy Carter, the Rev. Billy Graham,
Hugh Downs, 6 and 11 p.m. CNN.

   Sunday

   "Today": Susan Sarandon; winter skin care; hot stars for the millennium, 6
a.m. KNBC.

   "CBS News Sunday Morning": oil; Yo-Yo Ma; gold rush; Rufus Wainwright, 7 a.m.
KCBS.

   "Meet the Press": 7 a.m. KNBC.

   "Face the Nation": Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Sen. Christopher Dodd
(D-Conn.), Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas),
Rep. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), CBS News consultant Gloria Borger, 8:30 a.m. KCBS.

   "Fox News Sunday": 8 a.m. (KTTV).

   "Late Edition": Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Sen. Mike DeWine (R-Ohio), Rep.
Bob Barr (R-Ga.), Rep. George Gekas (R-Pa.), former attorney general Dick
Thornburgh, former Clinton advisor Lanny Davis, William Bennett, 9 a.m. CNN.

   "This Week With Sam Donaldson and Cokie Roberts": Sen. Mitch McConnell
(R-Ky.), Rep. Asa Hutchinson (R-Ark.), Rep. Charles Canady (R-Fla.), 10 a.m.
KABC.

   "Both Sides With Jesse Jackson": year in review; Arianna Huffington, 2:30
p.m. CNN.

   "America's Black Forum": Maya Angelou; Yaphet Kotto, 1 p.m. KCAL.

   "CNN Newsstand": gene therapy; the year that was; the Dalai Lama, 7 p.m. CNN.

   "60 Minutes": Roman Catholic Church in Ireland; Sun Microsystems CEO Scott
McNealy; heroin addicts, 7 p.m. KCBS.

   "Dateline: NBC": Survivors' stories include a quadriplegic who invented a
device to facilitate maneuverability, 7 p.m. KNBC.

   "20/20": Mystery surrounds the death of a popular teen cheerleader, 9 p.m.
KABC.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1999


                             1679 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1999 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       January 2, 1999 Saturday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS DESIGN GENE THAT CAN BE REGULATED

BYLINE: By ROBERT COOKE Newsday

BODY:

   By designing a gene that can be turned on and off as needed, and then making
it work in live animals, researchers in Pennsylvania said Thursday they have
taken a vital step toward gene therapy.

   According to Dr. James Wilson and his colleagues at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, they have tailored a genetic system so it can
be controlled from outside the animal, simply by giving doses of a drug,
rapamycin.

   The three-part system already has been shown to work in mice and monkeys, and
has kept on working for months. This suggests it probably will work in humans
suffering from serious genetic diseases.

   "This is an important step toward controlled gene therapy," Wilson said. "We
think it will expand the scope of gene therapy, and make it safer, because we
have a way to turn it off."

   Dr. W. French Anderson, who has pioneered the research on gene therapy, said
Wilson's report -- appearing Friday in the journal Science -- "is very exciting.
It's very nice work. It's the first I'm aware of with in vivo regulated gene
expression."

   In other words, it's the first time that an extra gene that can be regulated
has been inserted into healthy animals. The gene can be turned up, down, or on
and off.

   Anderson, at the University of Southern California Medical School at Los
Angeles, said the fact that Wilson's system has been made to work, and has kept
on working, in monkeys "is very significant, because it means it should work
clinically," in human patients.

   The goal of such research is to find ways to defeat a large class of
inherited diseases that have essentially been unapproachable.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1999


                             1680 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1999 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       JANUARY 1, 1999 Friday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: DISCOVERY AT PENN MAY AID ADVANCES IN GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   In a development that may overcome a major stumbling block to gene therapy,
scientists at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center have figured out how
to turn the treatment gene on and off in mice and monkeys.

   Such control over therapy is crucial. Too much medicine can be as dangerous
as the disease itself.

   "Ideally what you want to be able to do is to turn the gene on when you want
to and switch it off when you don't want it," said French Anderson, director of
the gene-therapy laboratories at the University of Southern California. "In the
case of a patient who has their blood count fall, you can get the blood back up"
using the technique, Anderson explained. "But you don't want to leave it on,
because they could get hyper-transfused. You want only a certain level of
blood."

   The research was announced today in the journal Science. Also involved was
ARIAD Pharmaceuticals in Cambridge, Mass.

   "This is clearly a milestone," Anderson said. "It is the first demonstration
of being able to get a regulated gene expression in a primate."

   Although the research looks promising, it is too early to know whether the
technique will work in humans. And, even if it does, it might still be years
before it can be used to treat patients with genetic diseases.

   "Our goal is to give an injection of a gene and feed the patient a pill and
the pill would activate the gene," said James M. Wilson, director of the
Institute for Human Gene Therapy at Penn, who led the study.

   "If you wanted to activate more of the gene, you take more of the pill, and
if you wanted to activate less, you give less of the pill. And if you wanted to
stop it altogether, you stop taking the pill."

   In the experiment, the researchers strapped a gene onto a special type of
harmless virus. They also strapped on a "switch" - a sort of chemical door.

   They infected healthy mice with the combination. Then they sprung the door
open by giving the mice a pill. The gene inside was able to "come out" and start
working. This particular gene activates a hormone that turned on the mice's own
production of red blood cells.

   When researchers stopped giving the pill, the door swung shut and halted the
extra production of blood cells.

   "The problem up till now was that the door was always wide open," Wilson
said. With the new technique, "we can partially open the door, open it fully, or
shut it."

   The system worked in mice for six months, and later in a monkey for three -
significant amounts of time in gene-therapy research.

   Turning on and off the ability to make red blood cells might prove helpful to
people with blood disorders such as anemia.

   Gene-therapy researchers see the new technique as crucial to their efforts to
battle disease at its most fundamental levels. Virtually all human disease is
affected by our genes.

   Some illnesses, such as Huntington's disease and hemophilia, are purely
genetic disorders: Having bad genes can make you sick.

   Others - such as cancers and heart disease - have genetic components.

   Wilson said he planned to start preliminary human trials soon. The fact that
the technique worked in a monkey - a primate - has encouraged gene researchers.

   "Mice are mice, but monkeys are critical," Anderson said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002


                             1681 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                    December 31, 1998 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: IMMORTALITY ENZYME PROMISING IN LABORATORY TESTING ON MICE

BYLINE: By CARL T. HALL; SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE

BODY:

   New studies of a so-called immortality enzyme suggest that it can be safely
used to extend the life span of human cells without making them cancerous.

   The findings, published in the latest issue of the journal Nature Genetics,
are based on a yearlong study of the enzyme telomerase in human skin and retina
cells that were transplanted into laboratory mice.

   Results appear to resolve one of the key safety issues that had kept
researchers from testing the anti-aging technology in people. If further tests
succeed, telomerase genes might be used to counteract the normal aging process,
allowing possible treatments for common aging-related conditions, such as
failing eyesight and wrinkled skin.

   A year ago, telomerase was shown in test-tube studies to give cells that
normally wear out and die after a few reproductive cycles a virtually limitless
capacity to divide and multiply.

   The early findings generated considerable fanfare but also raised concerns
that the same enzyme, which is linked to many forms of cancer, might trigger
runaway growth in otherwise benign, albeit tired, cells.

   The latest mouse experiments were designed to address these concerns. The
studies of human cells were done in mice with bioengineered humanlike properties
- the closest thing to a human trial as could be safely devised at this stage.

   The work was sponsored by Geron Corp., a Menlo Park, Calif.-based biotech
company seeking to commercialize the telomerase technology. Along with Geron
researchers led by Choy-Pik Chiu, scientists involved in the work included
Geoffrey Wahl at the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif., and Thea Tisty at the
University of California at San Francisco.

   Similar results, reported separately in the same science journal, were
obtained by a team of Geron collaborators at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.

   Calvin Harley, chief scientific officer at Geron, said the bioengineered
"immortal" cells are still growing in the lab mice and, by all indications,
"these cells are behaving like normal cells."

   All the usual mechanisms for arresting cancerous growth appear to be working,
he added, suggesting that the presence of the telomerase, by itself, is not
enough for tumors to form.

   The aging process occurs when cells exhaust their supply of "telomeres" -
bits of genetic material that give cells the instructions needed to keep
dividing into new copies.

   Like plastic tips on shoelaces, the telomeres are found at the ends of the
long stretches of DNA packed into each cell's nucleus. In essence, the tips of
telomeric DNA wear away each time the cell reproduces, until none is left.

   Except during the fetal stage of development, most cells typically lack the
active gene needed to make new DNA tips. The telomerase enzyme, a protein
expressed by this gene, is what gives cells that ability. It is also one of the
factors in malignancies, where cell growth runs amok.

   Evidence that the enzyme can be used as a potential therapy without
triggering unregulated growth still leaves some safety questions unanswered.
Chief among them is whether cancerous properties might emerge after a longer
period of time.

   Nevertheless, the latest studies pave the way for rigorous preclinical
experiments - the final stage before the technology might be tried in a few test
subjects.

   Geron hopes the telomerase technology can play a role in a host of drug
development and gene therapy efforts, where it's often useful to keep cells
alive for extended periods of time.

   Two of the most promising applications include telomerase in bioengineered
cells from bone marrow and blood.

   Ultimately, the gene that encodes telomerase might be inserted into certain
cells in humans to reverse the aging process. But the first stage of human
testing is two to three years away, if all goes well.

   "What we've shown in these papers is that imparting cellular immortality to
normal cells doesn't cause them to behave abnormally in any other regard,"
Harley said.

   "To get the gene into people is going to require more work. A number of
safety issues need to be addressed."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1999


                             1682 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1998 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                          December 30, 1998 Wednesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: CLONING, VIAGRA WILL BE IN THE NEWS AGAIN IN 1999

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN and RICHARD L

BODY:

   Wednesday, December 30, 1998 CLONING, VIAGRA WILL BE IN THE NEWS AGAIN IN
1999

   Researchers expect more progress in growing cells for
transplants,discovering the location of genes

   Medical researchers will make giant strides in a variety of fields in the
coming year, just as they have in 1998.

   Here are a few highlights from the past year and a look at the
possibilities of 1999:

   VIAGRA:

   The blue, diamond-shaped pill to fight erectile dysfunction won U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval in March and immediately became one of the
best-selling drugs of all time. In studies, the erection enhancer made by
Pfizer Inc. helped about 80 percent of all patients.

   Even before the pills were available in pharmacies, doctors were besieged
by men who wanted a prescription. At the end of the year, 130 Americans who
took Viagra had died, most from heart attacks. Although no direct link has
been established between the deaths and Viagra, the FDA has ordered that the
drug carry a new label warning men with a history of heart disease,
blood-pressure problems and certain eye disorders to be careful when taking
it.

   Meanwhile, Viagra trials are under way in Europe, and several U.S.
researchers are preparing trials to see if the drug also could increase
women's physical arousal.

   STEM CELLS:

   In November, the dream of being able to grow unlimited amounts of human
tissue for transplantation came closer to reality. A team at the University of
Wisconsin at Madison reported that it was able to grow unlimited amounts of
embryonic stem cells  cells that are the parent cells of all tissues in the
body  in the laboratory.

   The finding opens the door to growing from scratch everything from heart
muscle to bone marrow and brain tissue. Clinical applications are perhaps
decades away, but for now scientists are working on ways to direct the human
embryonic cells to become specific cells.

   CLONING:

   In 1997, when Scottish researchers shocked the world with news that they
had cloned a lamb, Dolly, from an adult sheep, ethicists were concerned that
the same technology would be used to create copies of human beings.

   Now researchers appear to have come close. This month, a team of South
Korean scientists claimed to have cloned a human cell from an infertile woman,
creating a four-cell embryo that theoretically could have been grown into a
genetic replica of the woman. The work met with widespread skepticism and
criticism on ethical grounds and is yet to be published or reviewed by
scientific peers.

   Don P. Wolf, a senior scientist at the Oregon Regional Primate Research
Center and director of the human in-vitro fertilization laboratory at Oregon
Health Sciences University, will continue working with a technique similar to
cloning called nuclear transfer to create sibling monkeys. He is working
toward developing a population of genetically identical monkeys that would be
useful in research.

   AIDS:

   Powerful new anti-AIDS "cocktails,'' including drugs called protease
inhibitors, have cut nearly in half the rate of AIDS deaths in the United
States -- but that is where the good news ends.

   The drug combinations do not work for everyone who is infected. And
although more people are living with AIDS, unknown numbers are being infected
with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

   As a result, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has published
guidelines calling on all states to require reporting of HIV infection to
health officials. All states require AIDS reporting.

   Early next year, Oregon health officials will seek public comment on
whether the state should confidentially use names or unique codes for HIV
reporting.

   GENES:

   Work will continue on the Human Genome Project, a global initiative to
determine the location of the estimated 80,000 human genes and sequence all 3
billion base pairs of human DNA. The project is likely to be completed by
2003, two years ahead of previous projections.

   About 4,000 known genetic diseases are caused by mutations in one or more
genes. About 500 genes are being targeted for drug interventions, and that
figure is expected to increase from 3,000 to 10,000 genes once the genome
project is completed.

   Earlier this month, scientists announced they had for the first time mapped
the complete genetic instructions for making a living animal. Researchers
charted virtually the entire DNA of a tiny roundworm, C. elegans -- the most
complex creature so far.

   With the sequence of the worm's DNA in hand, scientists say they now have a
new tool to attack human diseases such as cancer, AIDS and Alzheimer's
disease. That's because more than half of the human disease genes identified
so far have counterparts in C. elegans.

   In another area of genetics, medical researchers continue to work on gene
therapy, which involves repairing or replacing defective genes that cause
disease.

   Last month, doctors reported they had shown that by inserting extra genes
into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses. The
approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery.

   The following fields overflowed: BYLINETITLE = OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN  and RICHARD
L. HILL of the Oregonian Staff

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             1683 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                    December 30, 1998 Wednesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: PRESERVING LIFE'S ESSENCE IN DEATH;
STORING DNA SAMPLE FOR GENE TESTING HAS ADVOCATES, FOES

BYLINE: By MOLLY KAVANAUGH; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

BODY:

   Last year, when the funeral director suggested storing a DNA sample of his
recently deceased father, Rusty Thompson thought the idea sounded "kind of
strange."

   But as the Cincinnati retailer and his two siblings talked about possible
medical needs of their families - born and unborn - they decided it was a good
idea.

   "Three hundred and fifty dollars for 25 years. Think about it. What's to
lose?" said the 45-year-old father, who plans to have his own DNA stored after
he dies.

   Collecting and banking the DNA of a deceased person offers a family a
blueprint of their genetic history and maybe more, said Paul Harding, scientific
director of DNA Analysis Inc., based in Cincinnati.

   "It's going to definitely be used for diagnostic [purposes]," said Harding,
adding that there are more than 5,000 inherited diseases.

   DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is an organism's basic genetic material; a
person's DNA can be found in any cell of the body. To collect a DNA sample from
a deceased person, a funeral director takes a snip of hair, draws some blood and
runs a swab inside the mouth. The sample is stored for 25 years, longer for a
nominal fee.

   Critics say the service has limited value and raises ethical questions, but
its use is spreading. The service, available in New Jersey and several other
states on a limited basis, began in Ohio last year with Cincinnati as a test
market.

   Since November, thanks to the approval of the Ohio Funeral Directors
Association, about 100 funeral homes statewide have begun offering DNA
collection. When stories appear in newspapers and magazines, DNA Analysis gets
phone calls from all over the country.

   "There seems to be a high interest in this," Harding said.

   The practice is so new that Cleveland area funeral homes said families have
not yet signed up for the service.

   "A lot of people have voiced their opinions on it. It seems like people find
it very beneficial or see no use for it," said Michelle Ody, funeral director at
Bauer-Laubenthal-Wainwright Funeral Home Inc. in Elyria.

   Ody, who is 24, said people her parents' age are generally more positive
about it while people in their 70s and 80s are more likely to be against it.

   When Kathleen Hanrahan's 79-year-old husband died 14 months ago, she and her
seven children gathered at the funeral home in Cincinnati to make arrangements.
The funeral director mentioned the DNA service.

   "Well, why not? We never know down the road," said Hanrahan, 80.

   The $350 cost covers sampling, storing and profiling a deceased person's DNA.

   If a family wants to determine if cystic fibrosis, for instance, might be
inherited, diagnostic testing can be done for an additional cost, which can
range from several hundred to several thousands of dollars depending on the type
of test. Such tests are not covered by insurance.

   Without the stored sample, families would have little choice other than to
exhume the body, at much greater expense, Harding said.

   Eric Juengst, associate professor of biomedical ethics at MetroHealth Medical
Center in Cleveland, questioned the value of extracting DNA from the dead.

   Juengst said that until recently, testing multiple generations for a
hereditary disease such as Huntington's chorea was not unusual. But scientific
advances have allowed the same information to be gathered by testing just one
individual, he said.

   "The way that genetic tests are being sold to the public as prevention tools
are no more powerful than the tools we use today like cholesterol tests. This is
a very minimal service," he said.

   The DNA samples also could be used to determine paternity, which might reveal
unexpected and unwanted surprises, Juengst said.

   "You might find out your dad really wasn't your father," he said.

   Harding said the DNA profile is confidential, accessible only by authorized
family members. Critics have voiced concern that insurance companies would have
access, but that will not happen, Harding said.

   Thompson said his family discussed possible adverse scenarios but decided to
go ahead. "There's not enough negatives," he said.

   The positives, Thompson said, include the possibility of gene therapy, the
use of DNA to correct or replace defective DNA that is causing an inherited
genetic defect. There is debate as to whether the stored DNA could be used for
gene therapy, but Harding believes it will be possible.

   So does Thompson, who considers the stored DNA a safety net for
grandchildren, for instance, who might need the family's DNA to replace a
defective heart valve caused by a genetic defect.

   The National Association of Funeral Directors has not taken a position on
funeral homes providing DNA services.

   "It is something we are exploring," said Kelly Smith, the association's
information manager.

   But Stephen Gehlert, executive director of the Ohio Funeral Directors
Association, said the association decided to endorse the procedure with the
condition that funeral directors go through the company's training seminar.

   "We are looking at it as a service for the family," Gehlert said. "It's not
funeral directors who will sell it. It will be families who will decide."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY: MARVIN FONG / PLAIN DEALER PHOTOGRAPHER (COLOR); Like an
image in a mirror, a person's DNA reflects a person's characteristics. Michelle
Ody, a funeral director at Bauer-Laubenthal-Wainwright Funeral Home Inc.,
Elyria, studying a DNA analysis booklet, represents one of 100 funeral homes in
Ohio offering to record a deceased person's genetic history.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998


                             1684 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                      December 29, 1998 Tuesday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: HEALTH/SCIENCE; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: ADVANCES

BODY:

   Easy, Early Diagnosis

   Yale University researchers have found a simple test that can help identify
older persons who may be suffering from early dementia. In the Time and Change
Test, subjects are asked to tell time on a clock set at 11:10 and to count one
dollar in change. If widely adopted, the test could be used in doctors' offices,
hospitals, clinics and nursing homes where such screening is rare.

      "While screening has been recommended for all older persons, tests now
available are complex and time consuming to perform and, therefore, not widely
used," says Dr. Sharon Inouye of the Yale School of Medicine. "The result is
that dementia often goes unrecognized in its early stages."

   Genetic Bulimia
   A woman's vulnerability to bulimia nervosa, an eating disorder, is largely
inherited through her genes, according to a Virginia Commonwealth University
study of twins.
    The VCU researchers concluded that bulimia nervosa is about 80 percent
inherited, even though parental and environmental influences can also play a
role. Previous research had shown that the disorder runs in families, but the
relative importance of genes, parenting and social influences was unclear.
   Bulimia nervosa is a disorder in which people go through a cycle of binge
eating and purging through self-induced vomiting or use of laxatives or
diuretics. It is most prevalent among women of college age.
   The VCU study is based on interviews with nearly 1,900 female identical and
fraternal twins from the Virginia Twin Registry.

   Addicted To Loud
    It's a condition you don't want your next-door neighbor to have.
   Lending weight to the suspicions of generations of disgruntled neighbors,
roommates and parents, a group of researchers at Northeastern University have
published a study suggesting some people might have addictions to loud music.
   "One of the hallmarks of addictions is continued use, despite physical
harm. These people couldn't stop listening," said Mary Florentine, one of the
authors of the study published recently in the journal of the American
Auditory Society.
   The study argues that music, like alcohol, heroin and nicotine, "has the
capacity to induce rapid and potent changes in mood and level of arousal, the
ability to reduce negative states, and the tendency to elicit the experience
of craving."

   Building Blood Vessels
    Using gene therapy techniques, researchers at Stanford University have
caused adult mice to begin growing new blood vessels in much the way that they
do as embryos.
   The discovery could help scientists find ways to cause humans to grow new
blood vessels as needed to revascularize a diseased heart or help diabetics
avoid the loss of limbs because of a lack of blood supply to tissue.
   The Stanford scientists, led by Helen Blau, a molecular pharmacologist,
inserted into the leg muscles of the mice a gene that produces a growth
protein that in turn stimulated blood vessel growth.
   "It suggests that embryonic-like stem cells in the circulation of adults
can be recruited to build new structures," Blau said of her finding.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998


                             1685 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                    December 29, 1998, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 1; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: RAISING HOPE, CASH FOR SICK CHILD;
 ILLNESS: FAMILY, COMMUNITY RALLY BEHIND 6-YEAR-OLD WHO CAME OUT OF COMA. FUNDS
WILL PAY FOR CONTROVERSIAL TREATMENT.

BYLINE: MATEA GOLD, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Aja Tate's family is living on hope and longshots.

   They've exhausted conventional medical procedures in their battle to keep the
6-year-old Carson girl alive.

   Six months ago, Aja was a spunky, spirited kindergartner. Now, after
unsuccessfully battling an inoperable tumor lodged in her brain stem, Aja sits
on her parents' living room couch, partially paralyzed, her body swollen from
steroids. She breathes through a trachea tube, unable to speak.

   The doctors say there is little hope. But her parents won't give up. They
want to take Aja to Houston, where a controversial doctor treats cancer patients
with an experimental gene therapy.

   The procedure, which the Tate family's insurance won't cover, costs about $
26,000 to start and up to $ 14,000 more a month for the next year. Aja's father,
a manager at a truck parts company, can't afford the bill.

   Ronda Jones, a fifth-grade teacher at Aja's school, Annalee Avenue
Elementary, won't give up, either.

   After learning about Aja's ailment two weeks ago, Jones swung into action,
organizing a medical fund to send the sick little girl to Texas.

   At the teacher's urging, the Carson city treasurer started a trust fund.
Students at Annalee Avenue donated their allowance money. Aja's Girl Scout troop
auctioned off Beanie Babies. Churches held raffles to help.

   In one week, the community raised more than $ 30,000--enough to start the
treatment. Now Jones is trying to organize a benefit concert to come up with the
rest of the money for Aja.

   "It's tragic to think you have to give up hope on someone so young," said
Jones, 32, mother of a girl the same age as Aja. "I just can't see dollars and
cents dictating whether a child lives or dies. This is a baby."

   Aja is the fifth of eight children in a close-knit family who teasingly
called her "Miss Aja," because she always liked to be the center of attention.
She was a bubbly, active girl who loved to ride her bike around the backyard and
play games on the computer.

   Then in June her parents noticed unusual symptoms: Aja's eyes were crossing
and her right hand was paralyzed. At Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, doctors did an
MRI and located a brain tumor the size of a quarter. Because of its location,
deep in the brain stem, doctors told the Tates they could not safely operate.
They said Aja might only live another year.

   She began radiation treatment. Then in August the tumor began to bleed and
Aja slipped into a coma.

   "We were preparing everybody to say goodbye," said her mother, Joyce Tate,
40. "People kept on praying. . . . then she woke up."

   But after the radiation was finished, Aja's tumor hadn't shrunk
significantly. The doctors said there was nothing more they could do. The Tates
brought Aja home.

   "I don't think they expected her to last the weekend," Tate said.

   While Aja was in the hospital, Tate heard from another mother there about Dr.
Stanislaw Burzynski, a cancer doctor widely praised by families who say he
helped cure their loved ones when everything else failed.

   Burzynski treats patients with what he calls "antineoplastons," synthetically
produced versions of chemicals that are naturally produced by the body. These
proteins act like triggers, he says, turning off the genes that cause cancer and
turning on those that suppress malignant growth.

   About 60% of his patients experience some benefits from antineoplastons, he
says, although other doctors have disputed his claims.

   Burzynski's practices have also generated fire from state and federal
authorities who say he has been prescribing unapproved drugs. After a lengthy
court battle with the federal Food and Drug Administration, Burzynski was
ordered last year to conduct clinical trials of his treatment to submit to the
FDA.

   For Aja's family, however, just a shot at a cure is enough.

   "It's our last hope," Joyce Tate said. "I feel like after all she's been
through, it can't harm her. I just want the best care possible. I'm willing to
try anything to prolong the life of my child."

   She went to Aja's school to ask if the staff could help raise money for the
procedure. The principal and Jones came to visit Aja.

   "I was in a rush to get out of the house so I could cry," Jones said,
recalling that visit. It made her reflect on her own daughter and her mother,
who is battling breast cancer.

   "I'm sick of this cancer," she said. "I've had enough of it. If I am able to
help this family, I consider it a blessing."

   After two sleepless nights she took the day off from work and started making
calls to radio stations, local newspapers and TV stations. She visited churches,
knocked on doors and called everyone she knew, begging for money.

   The school rallied together, organizing a fund-raiser that collected about $
7,000. Other donations poured in to the trust fund.

   After an Inglewood-based entertainment group offered help, Jones decided to
organize a benefit concert for Aja on Jan. 23. She's lining up rap stars, gospel
singers and comedians. Now all she needs is a place to hold the event.

   Jones' involvement has been "an answer to a prayer," Joyce Tate said. Aja's
illness has run her ragged. Her husband works full time while she stays at home,
juggles the needs of her younger children, never taking her eyes off Aja, who
sits silently on the couch. At night, she lies awake, thinking about her
daughter's struggle.

   "Some days I just don't see how I can keep going," she said. "Then just
seeing her smile is enough for me."

   With the money Jones has helped raise, the Tates hope to be in Houston with
Aja by the weekend.

   "After all she's been through," Tate said, "God didn't bring her this far
just to take her away."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joyce Tate comforts 6-year-old daughter, Aja, whose is swollen
from steroids. Aja has a tumor lodged in her brain stem.  PHOTOGRAPHER: PAUL
MORSE / Los Angeles Times PHOTO: Mary Jackson tends to Aja while brother Edward
and sister Ashley play.  PHOTOGRAPHER: PAUL MORSE / Los Angeles Times PHOTO:
Relatives describe Aja Tate, shown in kindergarten photo, as an active girl.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998


                             1686 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   DECEMBER 29, 1998, TUESDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Studies Lift Hopes for Anti-Aging Technology;

 Immortality' enzyme doesn't cause cancer

BYLINE: Carl T. Hall, Chronicle Science Writer

BODY:
New studies of a so-called immortality enzyme suggest that it can be safely used
to extend the life span of human cells without making them cancerous.

    The findings, published in the latest issue of the journal Nature Genetics,
are based on a yearlong study of the enzyme telomerase in human skin and retina
cells that were transplanted into laboratory mice.

    Results appear to resolve one of the key safety issues that had kept
researchers from testing the anti-aging technology in people. If further tests
succeed, telomerase genes might be used to counteract the normal aging process,
allowing possible treatments for common aging-related conditions, such as
failing eyesight and wrinkled skin.

    A year ago, telomerase was shown in test-tube studies to give cells that
normally wear out and die after a few reproductive cycles a virtually limitless
capacity to divide and multiply.

    The early findings generated considerable fanfare but also raised concerns
that the same enzyme, which is linked to many forms of cancer, might trigger
runaway growth in otherwise benign, albeit tired, cells.

    BIOENGINEERED MICE

    The latest mouse experiments were designed to address these concerns. The
studies of human cells were done in mice with bioengineered humanlike properties
-- the closest thing to a human trial as could be safely devised at this stage.

    The work was sponsored by Geron Corp., a Menlo Park-based biotech company
seeking to commercialize the telomerase technology. Along with Geron researchers
led by Choy-Pik Chiu, scientists involved in the work included Geoffrey Wahl at
the Salk Institute in La Jolla and Thea Tisty at the University of California at
San Francisco.

    Similar results, reported separately in the same science journal, were
obtained by a team of Geron collaborators at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.

    Calvin Harley, chief scientific officer at Geron, said the bioengineered
"immortal" cells are still growing in the lab mice and, by all indications,
"these cells are behaving like normal cells."

    All the usual mechanisms for arresting cancerous growth appear to be
working, he added, suggesting that the presence of the telomerase, by itself, is
not enough for tumors to form.

    The aging process occurs when cells exhaust their supply of "telomeres" --
bits of genetic material that give cells the instructions needed to keep
dividing into new copies.

    SHOELACES AND DNA

    Like plastic tips on shoelaces, the telomeres are found at the ends of the
long stretches of DNA packed into each cell's nucleus. In essence, the tips of
telomeric DNA wear away each time the cell reproduces, until none is left.

    Except during the fetal stage of development, most cells typically lack the
active gene needed to make new DNA tips. The telomerase enzyme, a protein
expressed by this gene, is what gives cells that ability. It is also one of the
factors in malignancies, where cell growth runs amok.

    Evidence that the enzyme can be used as a potential therapy without
triggering unregulated growth still leaves some safety questions unanswered.
Chief among them is whether cancerous properties might emerge after a longer
period of time.

    Nevertheless, the latest studies pave the way for rigorous preclinical
experiments -- the final stage before the technology might be tried in a few
test subjects.

    Geron hopes the telomerase technology can play a role in a host of drug
development and gene therapy efforts, where it's often useful to keep cells
alive for extended periods of time. Two of the most promising applications
include telomerase in bioengineered cells from bone marrow and blood.

    Ultimately, the gene that encodes telomerase might be inserted into certain
cells in humans to reverse the aging process. But the first stage of human
testing is two to three years away, if all goes well.



LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998


                             1687 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   December 29, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Genes unlock heart secrets

BYLINE: Steve Sternberg

BODY:

Viagra grabbed the biggest medical science headlines in 1998,
a year in which genetics led to important breakthroughs and major
drug companies got into the dietary supplement business. A review
of health news highlights:


   Genetic research yielded such diverse advances as new biological
bypass techniques and clues to the character of the legendarily
lethal 1918 flu.

   * The time-tested techniques of coronary bypass surgery
and balloon angioplasty gained an intriguing competitor in 1998
when Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston
showed that gene therapy successfully promotes the growth of new
coronary blood vessels.


   Isner and roughly a dozen other research teams nationwide demonstrated
that the growth-factor gene VEGF, or the protein that the gene
naturally produces, can produce microscopic blood vessels that
nourish the heart.

   But many questions remain about the method's usefulness.

   The vessels are microscopic. In some cases, they don't restore
sufficient blood flow. In other cases, however, they can rebuild
the circulation around the heart and can bypass clogged arteries
in the legs. Unfortunately, doctors don't yet know which patients
are most likely to benefit.

   * The flip side of this research -- countering the growth
of new blood vessels -- also generated great scientific interest
in 1998.

   Judah Folkman, researcher at Children's Hospital in Boston, reported
that two potent drugs, angiostatin and endostatin, can safely
shrink lethal tumors in mice.

   The drugs counteract the effects of blood-vessel growth factors,
thus depriving tumors of the blood they need to thrive.

   Will this work in humans? Only more research will tell.

   * Scientists drew closer to an understanding of the influenza
virus that caused the catastrophic 1918 epidemic that killed more
than 20 million people worldwide.

   The research, by Jeffrey Taubenberger and colleagues at the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, D.C., involved extracting
the fragments of viral genes from tissues of an Eskimo woman nicknamed
"Lucy" and two World War I soldiers who fell victim to the epidemic.

   Armed with the fragments, Taubenberger's team has deciphered the
virus's hemagglutinen gene, the key to making a vaccine. They
are close to deciphering the neuraminidase gene, which could lead
to new treatments.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, C.J. Gunther;
Jeffrey Isner: Used gene therapy to grow blood vessels

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998


                             1688 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                December 27, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Page 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Fighting for Jacob

BODY:

   Jordana Sontag confirms that I am not the only successful professional woman
who has fleetingly considered chaining herself to the White House fence to get
attention (Michael Winerip, Dec. 6). Nature dropped a genetic bomb on me too. My
child was born with a serious type of muscular dystrophy. Because it is the
world's most common fatal genetic disorder affecting children, I initially took
hope in thinking there must be much ongoing research. Like the Sontags, I came
to the sickening realization that treatment is near yet so far.

    We must do more to get gene therapy and other clinical trials moving. I
don't mind taking a risk.

Stephanie W. Sernau
Scarsdale, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998


                             1689 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                December 27, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: December 20-26;
Relief for Angina

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

BODY:

   One injection of an experimental drug directly into the heart through a small
incision in the chest has greatly relieved, even eliminated, the chest pain of
angina that standard drugs and bypass surgery had failed to control, according
to preliminary findings from two continuing studies in the United States and
Germany. One drug is gene therapy to produce a protein called vegF, for vascular
endothelial growth factor. The other drug is a protein called FGF-1, for
fibroblast growth factor.

    Independent experts urged caution for a number of reasons. One is the small
numbers -- about 25 patients have been tested so far. Another is uncertainty
about the duration of benefit because the first patient was treated only 10
months ago. A third is that for ethical reasons no patient could receive a
placebo as a scientific control to allow more rigorous comparison.   LAWRENCE K.
ALTMAN

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1998


                             1690 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            December 27, 1998 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: ACCENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Overreliance on antibiotics is sapping their effectiveness

BYLINE: Jim Warren, KRT NEWS SERVICE

BODY:

   Here's a scene that will be played out in countless physicians' offices this
flu-and-cold season - and it contributes to one of modern medicine's most
perplexing problems.

    A parent brings in a small child - feverish and crying with a suspected ear
infection - and demands an antibiotic to give relief. The doctor, eager to help
and wanting to please, prescribes the antibiotic - even though he knows there is
a good chance that the infection is caused by a virus or an allergic reaction
and that the antibiotic won't do any good.

    Worse, this inappropriate use of antibiotics could help develop drug
resistance in any bacteria that are lurking in the child's body.

    Antibiotic resistance is happening everywhere doctors look. Many antibiotics
that could easily knock out infectious bacteria a few decades ago are now only
marginally effective or don't work at all because the bugs have become immune to
them.

    In many such cases, the only alternatives may be to cut out the infection
with surgery; fall back on older, more toxic drugs; or just hope for the best.

    Several factors are fueling the problem. But experts agree that a major
cause is doctors' tendency to overprescribe antibiotics - and patients' tendency
to overuse them.

    During the past 60 years antibiotics like penicillin and vancomycin have
tamed many once-feared disorders. But too much of a good thing now is helping
those diseases become a threat again.

    Some people fear that if a solution isn't found, drug resistance eventually
might knock the foundations out from under modern medicine, turning the clock
back to the days, not so long ago, when people routinely died from simple
infections because there was no way to stop them.

    "It's happening right now, not tomorrow, not six months from now, but
today," says Robert Rapp, a professor of pharmacy at the University of Kentucky
who works on the problem. "Germs are smart. And if you use enough of one drug in
enough patients, and expose the bacteria to enough of that drug, the bacteria
will find a way to get around it." Resistance growing Antibiotic resistance has
been a problem for years. But it exploded in the early 1990s, with more and more
bugs resisting more and more drugs. Penicillin-resistant strep pneumonia
appeared about 1981, for example, but the number of cases stayed small. Then,
around 1991, resistant strep jumped from about 3 percent of all pneumonia cases
to about 35 percent. It's been growing ever since.

    Perhaps not coincidentally, this comes at a time when many infectious
diseases - once all but eradicated - are on the rebound. Nationally, deaths in
which infectious disease was an underlying cause increased by 58 percent between
1980 and 1992, with the greatest rise in the 25-44 age group. Infectious disease
was the fifth leading cause of death in 1980. By 1992, it was third, behind
cardiovascular disease and cancer.

    One way to slow drug resistance, Rapp and other experts say, is for all of
us, doctors and patients alike, to use antibiotics more judiciously.

    ``We've grown accustomed to reaching for a pill any time we get sick," says
Dr. Claire Pomeroy, UK's chief of infectious diseases. "People feel like they
haven't gotten their money's worth from their doctor's visit if they don't walk
out with a prescription."

    Doctors often feel pressured to give antibiotics, even when they know it
might not be the best practice, says Dr. Stan Block, a pediatrician who speaks
to medical groups on drug resistance.

    ``It can have economic repercussions," Block said. "You're reluctant to have
the patient leave and maybe go see the doctor down the street. And if the
patient is a child and the parent is working, she may say, `I have to get back
to work. Put my child on antibiotics so I don't have to come back again.' Years
ago, parents might keep a child at home and just sit out an infection. Now, most
don't have that luxury."

    So, Block says, too many doctors keep doling out too many antibiotics for
ear infections, fevers and other problems, even though many such cases are viral
and likely to disappear on their own in a few days.

    For example, some studies indicate that in more than half of all ear
infections of children, the inflammation disappears on its own without the use
of antibiotics. How it happens Rapp explains how overuse of antibiotics can
contribute to drug resistance.

    ``In a colony of billions of bacteria, you may have only a few cells that
are naturally resistant to the antibiotic. But when you give the drug, you kill
off all the susceptible cells and leave behind only the resistant ones. They can
then survive, reproduce and pass this resistance along to later generations. As
you give more antibiotic, you select out more and more resistant microbes. In
turn, they can spread into the environment. Over time, most of the bacteria
become resistant."

    Also, the stress of being exposed to antibiotics can trigger genetic
mutations in bacteria that help them resist the drugs. They can then pass along
their resistant traits through reproduction or by literally exchanging genetic
information with other bacteria. Because microbes replicate so rapidly - a
single bacterium can produce a billion offspring in as little as 10 hours - huge
numbers of resistant cells can appear in a short time.

    The result, Rapp says, is that bacteria develop multiple ways to outsmart
drugs. Some produce enzymes to destroy the drug itself; others strengthen their
cell walls to keep drugs from entering; some develop "pumps" to push out any
drugs that breach the cell wall. Overuse of antibiotics just speeds up the
process.

    The ultimate answers, Rapp contends, will be new vaccines to prevent
infectious diseases, better antibiotics that germs can't resist and gene
therapies to provide new ways of attacking diseases.

    Until those answers are found, Pomeroy says, we may have to get over our
love affair with antibiotics.

    ``We've been through a sort of honeymoon, when penicillin and sulfa could
cure pretty much anything you came down with," she said. "People thought
antibiotics could cure any infection, so they wanted antibiotics. But that's
just an illusion that we've created for people."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1691 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1998 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                          December 23, 1998 Wednesday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: THE GOLDEN AGE FOR CREATING MEDICINEMEDICAL RESEARCH

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN of the Oregoni

BODY:

   Wednesday, December 23, 1998 THE GOLDEN AGE FOR CREATING MEDICINE

   MEDICAL RESEARCH

   Pharmaceutical companies are churning out more drugs than ever,  mainly
because the biotechnology revolution in medicine enables scientists to  create
more efficient drugs faster than before.

   Overall, about 1,000 new drugs are in development, and about a third are  the
result of biotechnology, according to Jeffrey L. Trewhitt, spokesman for  the
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the organization  that
represents the country's top pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

   "We keep progressing, " Trewhitt said. "We are in a biotechnology surge, a
golden age of biology."

   The first biotechnology medicine, Humulin, a genetically engineered human
insulin, was approved for patient use in 1982, and now more than 50 approved
biotechnology products have helped 60 million patients.

   In a report early this year, Alan F. Holmer, president of PhRMA, explained
that there is a direct relationship between recent genetic discoveries and the
identification of new drugs.

   The body has about 100,000 genes, each responsible for telling all of the
enzymes, hormones, antibodies and other proteins in the body how to function.
Therefore, a missing or defective gene may cause illness. Modern tools of
biotechnology and computer technology help scientists quickly analyze data and
determine which genes and proteins are defective, so they can develop  medicines
to correct the problem.

   These techniques have yielded medicines that break up blood clots that  cause
heart attacks and strokes, a medicine that replaces growth hormone in  children
who lack a sufficient supply and a medicine that breaks up mucus in  the lungs
of cystic fibrosis patients.

   Biotechnology medicines in development include drugs for colorectal, breast
and bone cancer. Others include vaccines to either prevent or treat HIV, AIDS,
multiple sclerosis and stroke, as well as colorectal, pancreatic, breast, lung
and prostate cancers.

   In general, many new medicines are being developed for a broad range of
illnesses and for specific populations such as children and African Americans.
They include: Mental illness:

   This year, pharmaceutical companies will invest $4.8 billion to discover  and
develop medicines acting on the central nervous system, including drugs  for
mental illness. This is the first year the pharmacy organization has  broken out
the figure for drugs used to treat mental illness. These include 23 medicines
for dementias such as Alzheimer's disease; 19 for substance abuse  disorders; 18
for depression; 16 for anxiety disorders; and 15 for  schizophrenia.

   Infectious diseases:

   Medicines and vaccines now either in clinical trials or awaiting Food and
Drug Administration approval include a new class of antibiotics that appear to
be effective against severe infections resistant to existing antibiotics; the
first vaccine for prevention of cervical cancer and genital warts caused by  the
human papilloma virus; a flu vaccine administered by nasal spray; and an  edible
vaccine for traveler's diarrhea using raw potatoes. AIDS:

   The FDA approved the first AIDS drug in 1987, and since then 54 medicines
have been approved to treat AIDS and related conditions. An additional 113,
created through biotechnology and traditional methods, are in development. The
medicines include several second-generation protease inhibitors with  simplified
dosage requirements and the first of a new class of drugs that  blocks the entry
of the AIDS virus into cells. Children:

   Medicines in development to meet the special needs of children include: a
vaccine to prevent ear infections, a gene therapy treatment for brain tumors
and a medicine to treat psychotic disorders in children as young as 5.

   African Americans:

   The average life expectancy of African Americans is 70 years, six years  less
than the overall life expectancy. African Americans suffer  disproportionately
from AIDS, cancer, diabetes, kidney disease, heart disease  and lung disorders.
The pharmaceutical industry has developed 46 new medicines that focus on cancers
that disproportionately affect African Americans. Other  medicines in
development target kidney disease, asthma, glaucoma, lung  disease, sickle cell
disease and other causes of death and disability among  African Americans.

   ILLUSTRATION: Graphics Chart by The Oregonian and Source: Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufactures of America -- Making new drugs

   The following fields overflowed: BYLINETITLE = OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN of the
Oregonian Staff

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             1692 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                      December 23, 1998 Wednesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: CLASSIFIED; Pg. F9

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: INJECTED DRUGS RELIEVE PAIN OF HEART DISEASE IN STUDIES

BYLINE: By Lawrence K. Altman 1998, The New York Times

BODY:

   Two small studies have shown that, in just a few weeks, one dose of
experimental drugs injected directly into the heart can greatly relieve, or even
eliminate, the chest pain of coronary artery disease by encouraging the growth
of new blood vessels to bypass clogged arteries, according to researchers in the
United States and Germany.

   The research is at a preliminary stage, and the drugs have yet to be tested
in large groups of people. Even if the results hold up, it may be years before
any therapy is available for patients who suffer from such chest pain, or
angina.

   One of the treatments under study is gene therapy to produce a protein called
vegF, for vascular endothelial growth factor. The other entails injection of a
protein called FGF-1, for fibroblast growth factor.

   Each drug is given in a single injection, through a surgical incision in the
chest. In effect, both treatments aim to allow patients to grow their own heart
bypasses by sprouting thin "collateral" blood vessels, in a strategy called
therapeutic angiogenesis.

   The same gene therapy involved in one of these treatments has been shown to
be effective in building new blood vessels in the legs, but these reports are
the first to assert that gene therapy has produced new vessels in the heart.

   The coronary gene therapy research, led by Dr. Jeffrey Isner of St.
Elizabeth's Hospital in Brighton, Mass., and Tufts University, is reported in
today's issue of Circulation, a journal published by the American Heart
Association. The protein therapy is being developed by Dr. Thomas-Joseph
Stegmann of Fulda, Germany, a leader in the field, who discussed his work in
interviews.

   Tests of both therapies are in the first stage, where research determines
whether the treatment is safe to patients. Ordinarily researchers do not make
claims for effectiveness until later stages, involving testing on larger groups
of people, are completed.

   But the researchers said they were struck by the improvements reported by
more than 20 participants in the early trials, even patients whose pain could
not be controlled by other drug therapy or bypass surgery. And the editor of the
journal decided that Isner's results, though preliminary, were significant
enough to warrant publication.

   Nearly all the participants reported substantial pain relief, and some who
were virtually homebound before receiving the injection have painlessly resumed
swimming, working out on exercise bicycles and pursuing other physical
activities.

   Pain relief usually began about three weeks after the procedure, which, on
average, took about an hour in an operating room, with the patient under general
anesthesia. The hospital stay was about four days.

   Pain relief, even elimination of pain, has persisted in all participants who
showed improvement, the researchers said. "How long that will remain effective
is anybody's guess," said Isner, the first of whose patients received the
injection 10 months ago.

   St. Elizabeth's Hospital, with which Isner is affiliated, has formed a
company to test his therapy in larger trials. Stegmann is a co-founder of
Cardio-Vascular Genetic Engineering Inc. of Irvine, Calif., which aims to
develop angiogenesis treatment for coronary artery disease.

   Dr. Valentin Fuster, head of cardiology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New
York City, said, "It's exciting, but you should be cautious about what will be
the impact of all of this." Fuster, president of the American Heart Association,
said he doubted that it would "become a panacea for everyone" with angina and
coronary heart disease. He was among experts who said extensive research, taking
years, would be needed before these or similar therapies found their way into
standard medical practice, if they ever did.

   One important concern was that the two studies involved a small number of
patients. Another was that none could receive a placebo, or dummy substance, as
a scientific control to allow more rigorous comparisons. For ethical reasons,
the Food and Drug Administration and hospital committees whose function is to
protect volunteers from harmful research declined to allow researchers to
subject a control group to the rigors of sham surgery that offered them no
benefit.

   Yet another concern was uncertainty about the long-term benefits. Many
doctors remember a number of drug and surgical therapies for angina and other
conditions that appeared spectacular initially but that failed in the longer
run.

   Nevertheless Isner's report "is very compelling," said Dr. Jonathan Marmur, a
cardiologist at Mount Sinai.

   "The benefit reported is pretty convincing," Marmur said, "and requires
confirmation with control studies."

   Marmur and some other experts expressed optimism that these or similar
treatments might one day be administered through less invasive procedures than
chest surgery. For example, they might be administered through a tube inserted
into a leg or an arm and threaded to the heart, a procedure known as cardiac
catheterization.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998


                             1693 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                   December 22, 1998, Tuesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Doctor's successes in heart gene therapy spelled out in report

SOURCE: Staff

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer

BODY:

   Dr. Jeffrey Isner's telephone has been ringing since November, when he
announced the positive results of his groundbreaking gene therapy aimed at
overcoming one of the most common heart ailments - clogged blood vessels.

   People from around the country have called, seeking his treatment because
they have been told that nothing now approved has the potential of working for
them.

   Today, the Houston-based journal Circulation published the first report of
the Boston doctor's work, underscoring the validity of his results.

   Isner's treatment appears almost ridiculously simple. The naked DNA of a gene
called vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, is inserted directly into
patients' heart muscles via a mini-incision.

   Apparently, the gene stimulates blood vessel growth in the hearts of patients
who have undergone repeated treatments.

   Those prior treatments attempted to bypass the clogged areas of the coronary
arteries or to reopen them with a balloon or a wire mesh implement called a
stent.

   Isner, director of cardiovascular research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center
of Boston, thinks his treatment stimulates the growth of a mesh of tiny blood
vessels called capillaries. These minuscule tubes carry blood to the areas of
the heart usually nourished by the coronary arteries.

   In his study of the first five patients who have undergone the treatment,
Isner found the amount of blood their hearts put out improved and their chest
pain reduced between 10 and 30 days after the gene transfer.

   In two patients, the chest pain disappeared. It was significantly reduced in
the other patients.

   The cases are:

    A 67-year-old man whose chest pain was brought on by mild activity found two
months later that he no longer had to take medication for the discomfort. He
again was able to swim, an activity he had to give up because of his heart
problem.

    A 69-year-old man who had chest pains after walking just 10 yards. Three
weeks after the gene transfer, his need for nitroglycerin to deal with his pain
dwindled. Sixty days after surgery, he was able to exercise for 30 minutes on a
stationary bicycle.

    A 53-year-old man who faced daily chest pain when he walked more than 50
yards.  Two weeks after the gene transfer, he found that he could work longer
than before the chest pain started. Two months later, he could garden and walk
one-half mile without the crippling pain.

    A 71-year-old man who suffered angina or chest pain when he walked more than
100 yards. By day 10, his ability to exercise had increased, and his use of
nitroglycerine had decreased. One month later, he was able to return to his
part-time maintenance job at a local church.

    A 59-year-old man with daily chest pain who underwent the gene therapy and
found that his angina had disappeared within 30 days after surgery. He was able
to walk up to 500 yards, and his need for supplemental oxygen had been reduced.
Instead of daily angina, he reported two episodes per month.

   All the patients had undergone bypass surgery and/or balloon angioplasty to
reopen the blood vessels.

   "If it works in these patients, who are really pretty end-stage, I think it
would likely work pretty effectively for (other) patients," Isner said.

   Some patients who undergo bypass have a single, defined clot in a blood
vessel, and surgery seems to serve them best, Isner said. In others, the clogged
areas are more diffuse and the surgery results less satisfying.

   "I think you could certainly make an argument that one thing that this
strategy (the gene therapy) might satisfy is the need to operate on these
complex, difficult patients who are at higher risks," he said.

   Eventually, Isner plans to use a small tube called a catheter to deliver the
gene to the heart, eliminating surgery. His animal studies of the techniques
have been beneficial, and he soon will be applying for permission to proceed
further, he said.

   A study delivering VEGF directly into the coronary arteries through a
catheter began at the Texas Heart Institute this summer. Under the direction of
Dr. Emerson Perin and Dr. James Willerson, chairman of medicine at the
University of Texas Medical School at Houston, the treatment involves four VEGF
doses. One goes through the catheter into the heart's coronary arteries. The
next three are given in the arm.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998


                             1694 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                December 22, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: Two Studies Find That Heart Injections Offer Lasting Relief From
Angina

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

BODY:

   Two small studies have shown that over the course of just a few weeks, one
dose of experimental drugs injected directly into the heart can greatly relieve,
or even eliminate, the chest pain of coronary artery disease by encouraging the
growth of new blood vessels to bypass clogged arteries, according to researchers
in the United States and Germany.

   The research is at a preliminary stage, and the drugs have yet to be tested
in large groups of people. Even if the results hold up, it may be years before
any therapy is available for patients who suffer from such chest pain, or
angina.

    One of the treatments under study is gene therapy to produce a protein
called vegF, for vascular endothelial growth factor. The other entails injection
of a protein called FGF-1, for fibroblast growth factor.

   Each drug is given in a single injection, through a surgical incision in the
chest. In effect, both treatments aim to allow patients to grow their own heart
bypasses by sprouting thin "collateral" blood vessels, in a strategy called
therapeutic angiogenesis.

   The same gene therapy as is involved in one of these treatments has been
shown to be effective in building new blood vessels in the legs, but these
reports are the first to assert that gene therapy has produced new vessels in
the heart.

   The coronary gene therapy research, led by Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner of St.
Elizabeth's Hospital in Brighton, Mass., and Tufts University, is reported in
today's issue of Circulation, a journal published by the American Heart
Association. The protein therapy is being developed by Dr. Thomas-Joseph
Stegmann of Fulda, Germany, a leading figure in the field, who discussed his
work in interviews.

   So far, tests of both therapies are in the first stage, where research
determines whether the treatment is safe to patients. Ordinarily researchers do
not make claims for effectiveness until later stages, involving testing on
larger groups of people, are completed.

   But the researchers said in interviews that they were struck by the
improvements reported by more than 20 participants in these early trials, even
patients whose pain could not be controlled by other drug therapy or bypass
surgery. And the editor of the journal decided that Dr. Isner's results, though
preliminary, were significant enough to warrant publication.

   Nearly all the participants reported substantial pain relief, and some who
were virtually housebound before receiving the injection have painlessly resumed
swimming, working out on exercise bicycles and pursuing other physical
activities.

   Pain relief usually began about three weeks after the procedure, which, on
average, took about an hour in an operating room, with the patient under general
anesthesia. The hospital stay was about four days.

   Pain relief, even elimination of pain, has persisted in all participants who
showed improvement, the researchers said. "How long that will remain effective
is anybody's guess," said Dr. Isner, the first of whose patients received the
injection only 10 months ago.

   St. Elizabeth's Hospital, with which Dr. Isner is affiliated, has formed a
company to test his therapy in larger trials. As for Dr. Stegmann, he is a
co-founder of Cardio-Vascular Genetic Engineering Inc. of Irvine, Calif., which
aims to develop angiogenesis treatment for coronary artery disease.

   Dr. Valentin Fuster, head of cardiology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New
York City, said, "It's exciting, but you should be cautious about what will be
the impact of all of this." Dr. Fuster, who is president of the American Heart
Association, said he doubted "that it will become a panacea for everyone" with
angina and coronary heart disease. He was among experts interviewed who said
much more extensive research, taking years, would be needed before these or
similar therapies found their way into standard medical practice, if they ever
did.

   One important concern was that the two studies involved a small number of
patients. Another was that none could receive a placebo, or dummy substance, as
scientific controls to allow more rigorous comparisons. For ethical reasons, the
Food and Drug Administration and hospital committees whose function is to
protect volunteers from harmful research declined to allow researchers to
subject a control group to the rigors of sham surgery that offered them no
benefit.

   Yet another concern was uncertainty about the long-term benefits. Many
doctors remember a number of drug and surgical therapies for angina and other
conditions that appeared spectacular initially but that failed in the longer
run.

   Nevertheless Dr. Isner's report "is very compelling," said Dr. Jonathan D.
Marmur, a cardiologist at Mount Sinai.

   "The benefit reported is pretty convincing," Dr. Marmur said, "and requires
confirmation with control studies."

   Dr. Marmur and some other experts expressed optimism that these or similar
treatments might one day be administered through less invasive procedures than
chest surgery. For example, they might be administered through a tube inserted
into a leg or an arm and threaded to the heart, a procedure known as cardiac
catheterization.

   Such approaches are now being tested in small numbers of patients in trials
at major medical centers in the United States. Additional studies are on the
drawing boards, with the ultimate aim of giving the therapies intravenously in
the arm.

   Although she expressed caution about Dr. Isner's report, Dr. Judith Swain,
who heads the department of medicine at Stanford University, said she believed
that the idea of using angiogenesis treatments for coronary artery disease "is
an absolute winner."

   "The biotechnology and device companies," Dr. Swain said, "are all
salivating" over the potential of these therapies.

   VegF, the protein produced in Dr. Isner's therapy, is thought to be the
body's signal to grow new blood vessels, and the therapy is the same as the one
with which Dr. Isner's team has reported success in treating blocked arteries in
the legs of 75 patients since 1994.

   In part because the newly grown blood vessels are much narrower than coronary
arteries, however, there was no guarantee that the therapy that worked in the
leg would do so in the heart. So the F.D.A. was cautious when, earlier this
year, it allowed Dr. Isner's team to begin injections into the heart. It
authorized testing on only 30 patients, at a rate of only about one a week, and
with initially tiny doses.

   In the report being published today, Dr. Isner's team described dramatic
success with each of the first five patients treated with vegF in its study. In
an interview, Dr. Isner described similar benefits in 15 additional patients,
who were treated after the report had been written. Dr. Isner said his team was
administering the injections as fast as the F.D.A. would allow and hoped to
complete the initial safety trials in 1999.

   One sign of success was that patients reported using substantially fewer
nitroglycerine pills to relieve angina: 9.8 tablets per patient per week, from a
previous average of 53.9. Special approval from the F.D.A. would be needed if a
patient required a second injection because pain relief had waned. But such a
case has not arisen, Dr. Isner said.

   The doctors also reported objective scientific evidence of improvement from
tests like heart scans, electrocardiograms and special X-rays known as coronary
angiograms. The tests were performed shortly before the therapy and were
repeated 60 days thereafter. Doctors not involved in the study scored the tests,
without knowing when and on whom they had been performed. The doctors said that
the angiograms showed evidence of new collateral blood vessels and that no
patient had evidence of a new heart attack.

   The German study grew out of one that Dr. Stegmann's team reported earlier
this year, also in Circulation.  In the earlier study, which began nearly six
years ago, Dr. Stegmann injected FGF-1 into the hearts of one group of patients
undergoing coronary bypass surgery. Another group had bypass surgery without the
FGF-1 injection.

   Dr. Stegmann's report that the group treated with FGF-1 could sprout new
blood vessels sent waves of enthusiasm through the world of cardiology.
Follow-up tests show that the improvement in the FGF-1-treated patients has
persisted, Dr. Stegmann said, and that "FGF-1 injections did not create
uncontrolled growth of blood vessels, as some had feared."

   Because both therapies were given at the same time, however, Dr. Stegmann's
team could not be certain about the relative contributions of the FGF-1 and the
bypass surgery to the improvement that the participants reported.

   The next step was to give FGF-1 alone. Last month Dr. Stegmann's team began
injecting FGF-1 into the first of 20 patients, in a study due to end by next
spring. In the month following the injection, angina pain was abolished in two
of the first four patients who received FGF-1, and pain was greatly relieved in
the other two, Dr. Stegmann said in providing details of the unpublished
findings.

   All experts agree that extensive further research is needed to determine
which therapy is the safest and most powerful, in what amounts it should be
administered, how often the injections have to be given, and whether there are
less invasive ways of providing the treatment.

   Dr. Isner's gene therapy entails injecting naked DNA, so called because it is
not inserted into a virus or some other material. If naked DNA is injected
directly into a vein, rather than into the heart muscle as Dr. Isner
administered it, enzymes that are designed to attack any foreign substance will
destroy it.

   Other researchers are testing vegF coated with membranes, or inside a virus
that has been crippled so it will not cause illness. The studies will also test
the safety of such coatings.

   In one trial, involving some 100 participants at about a dozen medical
centers, researchers are testing whether FGF-4, a chemical cousin of FGF-1, and
vegF protein will be effective if injected in a cardiac catheterization.

   Dr. Marmur, of Mount Sinai, is conducting a study testing two forms of
therapy. One is a version of vegF made by Genentech Inc., a subsidiary of Roche
Holding Ltd. The other is FGF-4 that has been inserted into an adenovirus, a
cold virus; it is made by Berlex Laboratories of Wayne, N.J.

   The study, which includes participants who will receive a placebo as
controls, is also being conducted at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak,
Mich.; Duke University in Durham, N.C.; Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore; the
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.; the University of Michigan; the University of
Minnesota in Minneapolis; the Minnesota Heart Clinic in Edina, Minn.; the
University of Pittsburgh; the University of Vermont in Burlington; Washington
Hospital Center in the District of Columbia; the University of Washington in
Seattle, and the V.A. Hospital in San Diego.

   Dr. Marmur said it had taken three months of discussion with Mount Sinai's
ethics committee to win approval for the study because of concern that
participants in the control group would be undergoing catheterization without
receiving any FGF-4 or vegF.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998


                             1695 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                           December 21, 1998, Monday

SECTION: NEWS , Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: OSU TESTING RADIATION TO KEEP HEART VESSELS OPEN

BYLINE: Mark D. Somerson , Dispatch Medical Reporter

BODY:


   For years, a tiny, stainless-steel coil has frustrated cardiologists and
heart patients alike.

   Less than an inch in length, the coil, or stent, often is used to shore up
coronary arteries following balloon angioplasty, a procedure that opens the
clogged blood vessels. More than 600,000 angioplasties are performed annually in
America.

   Research has shown that balloon angioplasty and stents are effective
alternatives to bypass surgery, which at about $ 43,000 is nearly double the
cost of angioplasty.

   Stents also reduce the risk of restenosis, a re-narrowing of the arteries
that occurs in as many as 50 percent of angioplasty patients. Stents are used in
conjunction with about 420,000 angioplasties annually.

   But as many as 30 percent of patients who receive stents still experience
restenosis and can require repeated procedures.

   ''Restenosis is the Achilles' heel of what we do,'' said Dr. Gregory Eaton,
director of invasive cardiology at Ohio State University Medical Center. ''There
hasn't been any one great treatment for it yet.''

   Cardiologists have tested stents coated with blood-thinning drugs and stents
covered with slippery fabric in efforts to reduce restenosis.

   But with limited success in these studies, cardiologists are turning to a
more radical therapy - radiation. OSU is the lead site in a study examining the
effect of gamma radiation on restenosis among stent patients.

   ''The problem is, when you enlarge the size of the vessel, you also trigger
the proliferation of cells in the vessel walls,'' said Dr. Pascal Goldschmidt,
director of cardiology at OSU Medical Center and director of its new heart and
lung institute.

   ''The cells pile up inside the opening of the vessel, and after six months,
the patient needs another procedure. It becomes ridiculous.''

   Attacking specific cells with radiation is called brachytherapy; it's
traditionally used to fight cancer.

   Reduced blood flow is caused by atherosclerosis - thickening or hardening of
the arteries. Fat, cholesterol and other substances are blamed for
atherosclerosis, and so is smoking.

   To treat collapsed arteries, cardiologists have several options: bypass
surgery, which creates an alternative route for blood flow; angioplasty, which
involves inflating a small balloon in the artery to flatten fatty deposits on
the arterial walls; and stenting.

   Stents are deployed after the artery has been cleared during angioplasty. The
stent is folded, placed over the catheter and maneuvered into the collapsed
area. When the balloon is inflated, the stent opens and locks into place,
forming a rigid, permanent support to hold the artery open.

   Goldschmidt said smooth muscle cells inside the arterial walls ''cocoon''
until they are provoked, which can occur following stenting. In some patients,
stents irritate the arterial walls and set restenosis in motion.

   ''It's like you put these cells on one of the worst streets in the United
States,'' he said. ''They are placed in a new environment and react to that.''

   Five research sites will compare gamma radiation to a placebo during the
trial, which could include as many as 200 patients.

   Patients who suffer restenosis will undergo balloon angioplasty to clear the
narrowed artery. A wire that is either radioactive or a placebo will be inserted
through a catheter into the blood vessel.

   ''The wire will be left in place for eight to 10 minutes,'' Eaton said. ''The
goal is for the radiation to kill the rapidly proliferating cells.''

   Gamma radiation can penetrate deep into tissue and is often compared to
X-rays. The first OSU patient is scheduled to undergo the procedure Jan. 6.

   An earlier study examining safety issues showed promising results in the
small number of patients enrolled, Eaton said.

   Researchers at the Cleveland Clinic, Stanford University, Yale University and
at Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C., are the other participants in
this study. Other studies are looking at radioactive stents, and beta radiation
wires.

   Goldschmidt said that beyond radiation, the future of treating restenosis
could involve gene therapy. He said a few genes appear to cause stent patients
to suffer restenosis.

   ''Something is making these 'street' cells more resistant to dying than the
'cocoon' cells,'' he said. ''These (street) cells come out wearing bulletproof
vests.''

   @kDr. G. Eaton

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998


                             1696 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          December 21, 1998 Monday All

SECTION: Health and Science Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Injecting growth factor gene may invigorate aging muscles

BYLINE: PAUL RECER

SOURCE: Associated Press

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging m uscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers caution that
many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27% of the muscle lost to age when they were injected with a
gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical Center said last week.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15%, said H. Lee Sweeney, the study's
senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, both ethical and safety
questions must be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the injections
could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle m ass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow lar ger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10% of their muscle strength an d mass
each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls, broken
bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin-like gro wth factor-1, which causes new cells to grow.

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weaken tissue.

   Without the growth factor signal, muscle cells that wear out or become
injured are not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is call ed an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make the growth factor,
which, in turn, led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each muscle
in the body, the researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily fu nctions," said Sweeney. "For the majority of the elderly
population, the border line between being able to walk or not can be dealt with
by targeting key muscle groups."

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a mild
form of muscular dystrophy, said Sweeney.

   But Dr. Leon Charash of Cornell University, a prominent researcher in
muscular diseases and a medical adviser to the Muscular Dystrophy Association,
said he doubted the gene therapy would have much effect on musc ular dystrophy.

   Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology. The study is to appear this week in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, a scientific journal.



LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998


                             1697 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    December 20, 1998, Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: READER; Pg. 05F

LENGTH: 947 words

SERIES: Home

HEADLINE: Health Watch;
THE WEEK'S TOP MEDICAL STORIES

BODY:


   Cloning claim meets with skepticism
 South Korean researchers reported that they cloned a human embryo --- a claim
immediately challenged by scientists, who also questioned the Asian team's
medical ethics.

   At a news conference, Kim Sung-ho and Lee Bo-yon of Kyunghee University
Hospital in Seoul said they produced the embryo using an unfertilized egg and a
cell taken from the body of a woman. The embryo was aborted after it had divided
into four cells, they said.

   But other cloning experts said they were suspicious of the claim and appalled
at the attempt. No scientific papers had been presented on the work and the team
had not submitted their results for peer review before making the announcement
at a press conference.

   "I haven't seen any information that suggests that they've actually
accomplished this," said Steven Stice, a world-class cloning expert at the
University of Georgia. "And to say you have four cells is a far cry from saying
you have succeeded at cloning humans."

   Lee said he used the same technique used by that of Teruhiko Wakayama of the
University of Tokyo, who produced 50 cloned mice from several different adult
animals while at the University of Hawaii. The Korean experiment involved
replacing the nucleus of the donated egg cell with the nucleus of an ordinary
body cell.  The scientists induced the egg to divide as if it were fertilized,
before the experiment was ended. The embryo, if brought to maturity, would have
been genetically identical to the donor of the body cell, they claimed. Gene
discovery of the week: Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore
youthful vigor and strength, according to a lab study of mice. But researchers
caution that many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the
therapy on humans. Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when
they were injected with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, researchers at
the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center said. For younger mice, the gain
was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the study's senior author.
Researchers said the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of one day
correcting one of the major problems of aging --- muscle feebleness. Back to
sleep: Babies are dying, several researchers have concluded, after being placed
at high risk for sudden infant death syndrome when parents consistently put them
down to sleep on their backs --- and then other caregivers mistakenly position
them on their stomachs. Although SIDS rates have dropped 43 percent in five
years, researchers warn more needs to be done to make sure day care providers,
baby sitters and other caregivers get the message. Babies on their stomachs face
a three to four times higher risk of SIDS than do babies on their backs,
researchers say. But back sleepers who nap on their tummies face an 18-fold
risk, according to a recent study by Washington University researchers. Low fat
= health: The longest study yet of an ultra-low-fat program to treat heart
disease found more than two-thirds of patients stuck with the program for at
least five years and their heart health steadily improved. In contrast, heart
patients assigned to conventional care --- a moderately low-fat diet and, in
some cases, cholesterol-lowering drugs --- steadily worsened over the same
five-year period. The study, conducted by Dr. Dean Ornish and his colleagues, is
reported in the current issue of The Journal of the American Medical
Association. Without drugs, Ornish's 28 patients suffered half the rate of heart
attacks and other adverse heart ''events'' such as bypass operations and
angioplasty procedures, the study found. The American Heart Association,
however, remained skeptical of Ornish's approach, questioning whether most
Americans could maintain the drastic dietary and lifestyle changes necessary.
Sweet news: Eat chocolate. Live longer? Could be. A study of 7,841 Harvard male
graduates found that chocolate and candy eaters --- regardless of how voracious
their appetite for goodies --- live almost a year longer than those who abstain.
The researchers at Harvard University's School of Public Health, whose study was
published in this week's issue of the British Medical Journal, said they don't
know why this is. They speculate that anti-oxidants present in chocolate may
have a health benefit. And they stress that their findings are preliminary, and
other experts caution that the research does not prove anti-oxidants are behind
the results. Fewer teen moms having second child: The number of teenage mothers
who have a second child has dropped dramatically, the government reported, a
hopeful trend since it's often after a second baby that a young woman drops out
of school and goes on welfare. For years, researchers have been tracking overall
teen births, which dropped last year for a sixth year running. But the new
report was the first to focus on births to teens who already had had a child. It
found a 21 percent drop from 1991 to 1996 to the lowest level in more than two
decades. Problems with heart drug: An experimental drug that showed great
promise in treating patients with congestive heart failure may do more harm than
good over the long term, possibly causing a deadly, irregular heartbeat, a study
found. Vesnarinone, a drug that makes a weakened heart beat more powerfully, was
shown in previous studies to dramatically improve the rate of survival among
patients with severe heart failure. But the new study, involving 3,833 patients
and published in The New England Journal of Medicine, showed an increase in the
death rate over a longer period of time, especially from cardiac arrest.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998


                             1698 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                    December 20, 1998, Sunday 2 STAR EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: In brief

SOURCE: Staff

BODY:

   Transactions


   Buyer: Phuoc Van Ho. Seller: Minnie J. Frick. Description: 4.5 acres.
Location: Texas 249 and Ramona Boulevard. Representatives: Tricia Jefferies of
McDade, Smith, Gould & Co. for the seller. Tany Suerte of Intercon Realty for
the buyer.

   Buyer: TMRI, based in Dallas. Seller: Texas Properties 1994-N1, also based in
Dallas. Description: 280-unit Kirkwood Landing Apartments. Location: 9850 S.
Kirkwood. Representative: Mark Hendricks of Hendricks & Partners.

   Buyer: Jetfill. Seller: Jack G. Jones, Trustee. Description:
30,000-square-foot office warehouse building on two acres. Location: 5902
Sovereign. Representatives: Scot Ison of InSite Realty for the buyer. John
Duffie of Midway Cos. for the seller.

   Buyer: 10.72 Spring Cypress Ltd. Seller: Peter S. Terpstra. Description: 10.7
acres of land. Location: Spring Cypress at Texas 249. Representatives: Keith
Grothaus and Dean Barberree of Caldwell Watson Real Estate Group for the buyer.
Mark Terpstra of Terpstra and Associates for the seller.

   Buyer: James W. Little. Seller: G&M Building Consultants. Description:
Approximately 10.8 acres. Location: Stewart Road at Nine Mile Road in Galveston.
Representatives: V.J. Tramonte of Joe Tramonte Realty for the buyer. Bob
Zannelli of Zann Commercial Brokerage for the seller.

   Buyer: Rampart Properties. Seller: Nuway Development Co. Description: 10.1
acres. Location: Northwest corner of FM 646 and FM 517. Representative: Ned
Torian of McDade, Smith, Gould & Co.

   Buyer: Oakwood Capital. Seller: QAS Corp. Description: 6 acres of industrial
land. Location: Petropark Drive. Representatives: B. Kelley Parker III of
Cushman & Wakefield for the buyer. John McCambridge of QAS Corp. for the seller.


   Leases


   Tenant: Geo Space Corp. Landlord: Vantage Cos. Description: 58,000 square
feet in Northwest Point Distribution Center No. 1. Location: 7150 Business Park
Drive. Representatives: Doug Nicholson of Grubb & Ellis for the tenant. Steven
Carter for Vantage Cos.

   Tenant: National Distribution Services. Landlord: Weingarten Realty
Investors. Description: 21,600 square feet. Location: 9021 Spikewood.
Representatives: Kelly Land-wermeyer of Weingarten Realty Investors for the
landlord. David Boyd of Boyd, Page & Associates for the tenant.

   Tenant: MDCL, doing business as Office Pavilion. Landlord: ROC-CH Northwest
Place 1. Description: 39,631 square feet of office/ware-house space in Northwest
Place 1.Location: 7520 W. 43rd St., Suite 125. Representatives: Gregory Egan and
David Hudson of Trammell Crow Houston for the landlord. Michael Townsend of
Moody Rambin Interests for the tenant.

   Tenant: Hein & Associates. Landlord: Galleria United. Description:
12,287-square-foot lease renewal and expansion. Location: 5075 Westheimer.
Representatives: Dan Boyles Jr. with Grubb & Ellis for the tenant. Ronnie Martin
with Hines for the landlord.

   Tenant: Professional Design Group. Landlord: Unum Life Insurance Company of
America. Description: 8,653 square feet of office space. Location: 3100
Weslayan. Representatives: Dan F. Boyles Jr. with Grubb & Ellis for the tenant.
Rubin Kremling with Michael Stevens Interests for the landlord.

   Tenant: Tax Refund Express. Landlord: Principal Life Insurance Co.
Description: 4,200 square feet in Post Oak Memorial Centre. Location: 1110 N.
Post Oak. Representatives: Matthew Minnis of the Minnis Cos. for the tenant.
Darryl Noon of Transwestern Property Co. for the landlord.

   Tenant: Benetton Sportsystems. Landlord: Interfin Development Co.
Description: 12,000 square feet in the Uptown Park center. Location: Post Oak
Boulevard and Loop 610 West. Representatives: H. Dean Lane Jr., Ed Page and Nick
Hernandez of Boyd, Page & Associates for the landlord.

   Tenant: HBC Engineering. Landlord: TPC Claymoore Two Ltd. Description: 23,378
square feet of office space. Location: Claymoore Business Park, 11555 Clay Road.
Representatives: Jason Whittington of NAI/Partners Commercial Realty for the
tenant. Brian Gammill of Trans-western Property Co. for the landlord.

   Tenant: Southwest Hay & Feed. Landlord: St. Paul Properties. Description:
13,860 square feet. Location: 3870 W. 11th St. Representatives: Darryl Noon of
Transwestern Property Co. for the landlord. Jim Arledge of Arledge & Co. for the
tenant.


   Etc.


   Bank United signed a 15-year ground lease with Richmont Venture Partners for
38,000 square feet of land at Richmond and Montrose. The property will be used
for a 3,600-square-foot retail bank with drive-through. Kaldis Interests
represented the landlord. Mike Taylor of Bank United represented the tenant.

   ICI Dulux Paint leased a 6,800-square-foot building at Richmond and Woodhead
for a build-to-suit project by Kaldis Interests. The property was leased from
Richmont Joint Venture Partners in a deal negotiated by Kaldis Interests.

   Todd and Sherman Land Development purchased 26.5 acres adjacent to the
Westfield Glen subdivision for the construction of approximately 156 homes. The
site is located at Woodcreek Lane and Aldine Westifield Road, near FM 1960 and
the Hardy Toll Road. The land was purchased from the Aldine Independent School
District.

   Baker Hughes is adding 32,000 square feet to its training center at 2520 W.W.
Thorne at a cost of $ 4.3 million. The expansion will include a
3,500-square-foot data center, classrooms, a laboratory training area and a
6,000-square-foot addition to the shop training area where employees are trained
in tool assembly and offshore operations. The Falcon Group is handling the
addition.

   Introgen Therapeutics, a developer of gene therapy products that treat
cancer, is constructing a 42,000-square-foot research, administration and
manufacturing campus near the Texas Medical Center. Construction of the $ 7.6
million facility is expected to be completed by June. The Greater Houston
Partnership assisted in the expansion.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998


                             1699 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1998 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
                               The New York Post

                           December 20, 1998, Sunday

SECTION: Living; Pg. 034

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: MAKING SUPER BABIES ; KIDS BRED TO BE PERFECT MAY LACK SOME OF WHAT
MAKES US HUMAN

BYLINE: KIRSTEN DANIS

BODY:

   The sci-fi fantasy of designing perfect babies has come a giant step closer
to reality with the stunning announcement that researchers have decoded the DNA
of an animal for the first time.

   Now that researchers have mapped out all 19,909 genes of a microscopic
roundworm, understanding the human genetic blueprint won't be far behind.

   Scientists may soon be engineering babies - creating brilliant, disease-free
superkids or even babies who could grow wings or have Einstein for a dad.

   Research is pushing baby-making into a brave new world where parents could
pick little Timmy's eye color, wipe out a family history of heart disease and
boost his intelligence level - all before he's born.

   "It fundamentally alters the parent-child bond for the first time in
history," says Jeremy Rifkin, author of "The Biotech Century."

   "The child becomes the ultimate shopping experience."

   Dad a little dull? Swipe the DNA of Babe Ruth or Jimi Hendrix and morph it
into sperm for an instant celebrity papa.

   Two legs not enough? Add a few more for extra traction.

   Those are the most alarmist bio-future scenarios, triggering B-movie visions
of mutant soldier-kids with wings and fangs or genetically enhanced super-beings
who rule over unfortunate schlumps conceived the old-fashioned way.

   For now, it's all just conjecture.

   Scientists don't have the knowledge or technology to chisel children out of
genetic marble - and ethicists are still debating whether they should be able to
do it.

   But consider where we are today:

   * Doctors can test fetuses for chromosonal and genetic warps that cause about
1,000 of the 7,000 known genetic diseases like Down syndrome, Tay-Sachs disease
and sickle cell anemia.

   * The $3 billion federal Human Genome Project expects to map out the
estimated 80,000 genes in the human body by 2003. A private firm, Maryland-based
Celera, could do it sooner.

   * An Israeli couple recently fertilized several eggs in vitro and then had
the wife implanted with a girl because a male child had a high chance of having
a life-threatening disease.

   * Within a few years, a professor at the University of Southern California
plans to experiment with gene therapy on embryos - trying to battle genetic
disease by injecting the embryos with unmutated genes.

   "Gene therapy for improving people is coming, and it will make it possible to
improve your eyesight, your sex life, your hairline and your disposition," said
Glenn McGee, professor of bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania and author
of "The Perfect Baby."

   How far away is a designer baby? Estimates run the gamut from 15 years to two
centuries - to never.

   The scientific gaps are still enormous. Doctors can test fetuses for
diseases, but they can't cure them. Gene therapy on children and adults for the
most part has been a disappointing failure.

   And for all their progress, researchers don't have a handle on how genes
really work. It's one thing to map out genes, but it's another to decode their
soupy language.

   Genes, holed up in the 23 pairs of chromosomes that humans acquire at
conception, are tricky little protein-builders that mutate, switch on and off
and seem to change functions.

   Without knowing exactly how the puzzle fits together, fiddling with genes
could lead to DNA disaster.

   For example, if the technology were ready, parents understandably might be
eager to somehow "fix" a mutated gene to prevent sickle cell anemia in their
soon-to-be-newborn.

   But scientists know the same mutation protects other people from malaria -
and no one's quite sure if eliminating it would wreak havoc in the human gene
pool.

   "There is no such thing as a perfect child," said Dr. Victor Penchaszadeh,
chief of medical genetics at Beth Israel Medical Center. "Perfection is found in
variety."

   Of course, biodiversity is all well and good until it's your kid who gets
sick, he conceded.

   The link between sickle cell and malaria is just one example of the
complexity in the human molecular blueprint - there could be thousands or
millions of others.

   Intelligence could be linked to a predisposition to heart disease; a sense of
humor might be tied to nearsightedness.

   "How do you know you're not doing more harm than good when you're messing
around with genes?" said Dr. Ruth Macklin, professor of bioethics at Albert
Einstein College of Medicine. "When do we know enough to start?"

   Most ethicists assume science will figure out how to isolate gene function
and develop the technology to banish bad traits and insert good ones.

   That still leaves the big question: Is fooling with Mother Nature morally
right?

   Many ethicists and religious leaders see a difference between "fixing"
mutated genes to stop a disease and pulling a genetic switcheroo to have a child
with red hair, green eyes and a knack for long division.

   Rifkin, whose book predicts an age in which genes drive the world's
commercial and social engines, does not see much of a line between the two.

   "What we're actually talking about - and no one even wants to raise this - is
eugenics," Rifkin said.

   It doesn't take a lot of imagination to see a world in which wealthy parents
buy technology for brainy, athletic, charming progeny who don't get colic or
colon cancer, Rifkin said.

   He believes a new prejudice - DNA discrimination - will crop up against
people whose parents didn't engineer them into perfection. Employers and
insurance companies will shun the disabled, the fat, the weak, stutterers and
everyone who falls short of the ideal.

   McGee, who supports using genetic technology to cure disease, scoffs at
visions of an Aldous Huxley world in which "little munchkins are made in embryo
factories."

   "I just can't imagine in the future reproduction will be that impersonal," he
said.

   But we are creeping toward a dangerous mind-set regarding the definition of a
"normal" person, he said.

   People already hold parents responsible for what happens to children before
they are born - wagging their fingers at wine-sipping pregnant moms and
prosecuting pregnant drug users.

   Ethicists wonder how long will it be before society - or even kids - blame
moms and dads for not fixing cleft palates or club feet at conception.

   "Enhancements take our minds off the really important stuff and allow us to
obsess almost limitlessly about our most superficial traits," McGee said.

   Science and parents already go beyond nature to give kids a leg up in social
competition - like manufacturing human growth hormone for super-short children
or pushing a mildly talented clarinet player into three hours of lessons a day,
Macklin said.

   Why would changing the nose-shape gene in the womb be any different from
breaking Sally's nose and resetting it when she turns 16?

   "People have a freaky fear of genes and they say we have to draw the line
somewhere," Macklin said.

   The government is still wrestling over where - or whether - to draw that
line.

   The National Institutes of Health will not fund any research that
intentionally changes a fetus' so-called germline cells that carry the genetic
code from generation to generation.

   But its policy is silent about research that messes with those building
blocks unintentionally, as a side effect of work on other genes.

   After a University of Southern California researcher told the NIH he planned
to try gene therapy on fetuses that could affect the germline, protests poured
into the agency. But no decision has been made on whether he'll be given a green
light.

   Macklin, who ponders the moral issues as a member of the NIH's Recombinant
DNA Advisory Committee, said it will take time before a policy is developed,
especially as the technology changes.

   But there's another fundamental question lurking beneath the whole
choose-your-own-baby concept - the age-old nature vs. nurture argument about
what makes a person unique.

   Will a jacked-up intelligence gene land Johnny in Harvard's Class of 2205 if
he never picks up a book? Will extra serotonin guarantee a happy life for Susie
if she has a terrible childhood?

   Maybe not.

   Many diseases can't just be snipped away. Only 5 to 10 percent of all cancers
seem to have genetic links, so finding the culprit in the womb doesn't help much
if the perfect baby grows up to be a smoking, drinking, red-meat-eating adult.

   "I believe as much in environmental effects as I do in genes," Penchaszadeh
said.

   Deciding a child should be a brown-eyed, curly-haired basketball player
before she is born ruins the "mysterious magical surprise" of having a baby,
McGee said.

   "We hope we'll have a kid who becomes a ballerina but we're thrilled when
this same kid goes out and does something we never thought of," he said. "That's
where you get the most growth for parents and children - and that's what you
lose" with designer babies.


GRAPHIC: Too much hair on Baby? Genetic engineering could give you the option of
having a baldie.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998


                             1700 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                          December 19, 1998, Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS , Pg. 2G

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: UNABLE TO FIND FUNDS, PROGENITOR CLOSES UP

BYLINE: From staff reports

BODY:


   After six years and a corporate relocation from Columbus to California,
Progenitor Inc. has closed.

   The company, based in Menlo Park, Calif., announced the shutdown yesterday,
saying it could not secure financing to keep the business going.

   It employed 55. A small staff will remain to oversee the sale of Progenitor's
assets, the company said in a statement.

   Progenitor was formed in 1992 to commercialize cell- and gene-therapy
research at Ohio University's Edison Biotechnology Institute. A public stock
offering in August 1997 raised $ 19.3 million, although the initial $ 7 share
price tumbled more than 20 percent in the first day of trading.

   Shortly after it went public, Progenitor swapped $ 22 million of its shares
to acquire Menlo Park, Calif.-based Mercator Genetics Inc. Progenitor then moved
from Columbus to Menlo Park.

   Shares sold for 1/4 until trading was halted yesterday.

   During the first three quarters of fiscal 1998, Progenitor lost $ 10.6
million, nearly three times the loss in the same period the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1998


                             1701 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



               December 16, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1939 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Weed-Out Time in Biotechnology;
Once-Hot Industry Feels the Impact of Corporate Darwinism

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 15

BODY:

   At last year's American College of Rheumatology conference, Anergen Inc.
reported what it described as promising results in early tests of its new
treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.

   But by this year's conference, held last month, Anergen had suspended work on
the drug and dismissed 65 percent of its employees because it had run out of
money. On Monday, the company, based in Redwood City, Calif., managed to keep
some of its research alive by agreeing to be acquired by the Corixa Corporation,
a Seattle biotechnology company, for $8.5 million in stock.

    The biotechnology industry is facing a financial reckoning. Investors,
disappointed by the financial returns the industry has provided so far, are
growing more reluctant to provide the huge amounts of money young companies need
to develop, test and sell new drugs.

   The result, analysts and executives say, is that many small biotechnology
companies are cutting back on research. Some are falling by the wayside or being
acquired by bigger companies. And many others are giving up ambitions of
becoming full-fledged pharmaceutical companies and instead becoming, in effect,
subcontractors to the big drug companies.

   Some executives warn that the lack of capital could also slow medical
innovation because the small biotechnology companies have often been pioneers,
playing a crucial role in quickly moving scientific discoveries from university
laboratories to the marketplace.

   Although it is too early to say what the impact will be, biotechnology
companies need to spend heavily in their efforts to develop drugs and diagnostic
tests for cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer's disease and a wide range of other
conditions, as well as develop basic drug discovery techniques like gene-hunting
and chemical screening.

   The Immunex Corporation, a Seattle biotechnology company, struggled with
losses for 17 years and spent hundreds of millions of dollars on research and
development before finally introducing an important new drug for rheumatoid
arthritis last month. But biotechnology companies just starting out might not
get the same chance.

   "What it means, unfortunately -- even brutally -- in some cases, is that
promising areas of research will not be pursued," said Carl B. Feldbaum,
president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group.

   Some biotechnology industry executives, however, say the elimination of
weaker companies will be healthy, freeing money for more deserving projects.
There are simply too many biotechnology companies, they say, more than 300
publicly traded ones and about 1,000 private ones.

   Moreover, some experts say, medical innovation will continue but more of the
work will shift to academic laboratories and big drug companies.

   Congress has vowed to double the annual budget of the National Institutes of
Health the next five years from last year's $13.6 billion. This year's budget is
already up to $15.6 billion. And big pharmaceutical companies, which at first
largely ignored biotechnology, have now adopted its techniques, which involve
using genetic engineering, genetics and other advanced insights into how cells
operate.

   Still, small biotechnology companies, like their counterparts in electronics
and computers, can often move faster and more efficiently into new scientific
areas than can big companies.

   The biotechnology industry has seen such hard times before, most recently
from 1992 to 1994. Some executives and analysts think this is just another
cyclical downturn, tied to the overall volatility in the stock market this year.
Indeed, biotechnology stocks have rallied with the rest of the market in recent
weeks.

   "I've heard of gloom and doom already three or four times," said Dr. Alain
Schreiber, president of Vical Inc., a San Diego gene therapy company.

   But others say that investors have permanently soured on biotechnology and
that the entire system by which biotechnology companies have been created and
financed is breaking down.

   "We're trying to figure out what makes sense as a business model for this
industry," said Brian Atwood, a partner at Brentwood Venture Capital in Menlo
Park, Calif. "Nobody's figured that out yet."

   It is not that the technology has failed. Although it has not produced as
many new drugs as early investors had anticipated, biotechnology is now bearing
fruit. Ten drugs developed by biotechnology companies were approved or
recommended for approval in the third quarter of this year, and more than 280
drugs are in middle- or late-stage clinical trials. And the unraveling of the
genetic code presents a cascade of opportunities.

   The problem is the long times and huge sums required to develop these drugs.
To get money, companies must sell shares to the public years before they have
products or profits. The stock price can languish while the company conducts
clinical trials. While some drugs succeed and investors are amply rewarded, many
others fail and the stock price plummets.

   Investors have pumped an estimated $90 billion into public biotechnology
companies since 1980, according to Vector Securities International, an
investment bank specializing in health care. Yet over all, the investment has
not paid off, with biotechnology stocks rising in only 7 of 16 years, according
to Vector.

   Recombinant Capital, a San Francisco consulting firm, calculated back in 1995
that an investor who put $100 into every biotechnology initial public offering
since 1980 would have earned a return of only 1 percent a year. The figure would
probably not be much different if updated today, said Mark G. Edwards, the
managing director.

   So investors, who once plunged into biotechnology with the same abandon now
reserved for Internet stocks have become less willing to invest on a promise.

   Stocks of the roughly 10 big biotechnology companies, which already have
products and profits and market capitalization over $1 billion, have in general
risen smartly this year, but the stocks of scores of smaller companies have
plummeted. The 298 stocks tracked by Bioworld Financial Watch, a newsletter, are
down an average 18 percent this year.

   Privately held biotechnology companies have had difficulty going public, and
public ones have not been able to sell new shares.

   Publicly traded biotechnology companies raised $2.4 billion from investors
through October, less than half the $4.9 billion raised in the corresponding
period of 1997, according to Burrill & Company, a San Francisco merchant bank.

   Venture capitalists, who provide seed money, are also becoming more cautious.
The absolute amount of venture capital invested in biotechnology has remained
steady since 1995, but the industry's share of total venture investment has
shrunk, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm.

   Such prominent Silicon Valley venture firms as Accel Partners and Sequoia
Capital have quit investing in biotechnology to focus on software and Internet
companies, which do not face the same capital requirements and regulatory
hurdles. Others have become more cautious about starting companies.

   "A lot of things that were started should have stayed in a government lab or
university lab," said Sam Colella, managing partner of Institutional Venture
Partners in Menlo Park.

   He cited one of his own company's investments -- Athena Neurosciences Inc.,
which was founded in 1986 based on an idea a professor had about Alzheimer's
disease. Athena eventually succeeded by licensing products from other companies,
and it was acquired by a bigger company. But the idea on which the company was
founded has not led to a drug.

   "Athena's original premise would not get a dollar of venture capital today,"
Mr. Colella said. "I'm going to find things that are close to the market."

   In recent years, many start-ups have been companies that provided research
tools or services like gene-hunting or chemical screening to the big drug
companies. These companies can become profitable far more quickly than those
trying to develop drugs, though there is some question about how big they can
ultimately become.

   One big source of financing that is growing is from big drug companies.
Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. of San Diego raised $380 million from corporate
partners, while its three public stock offerings have yielded just $107 million.

   The big companies sometimes find it quicker and less expensive to license a
drug or technology from a biotechnology company than to develop it on their own.
So the biotechnology companies are becoming suppliers to the big pharmaceutical
companies, much as auto parts companies supply Detroit, said Mr. Edwards of
Recombinant Capital.

   But to get cash, biotechnology companies often must give up the rights to
sell the products they develop, accepting royalty payments instead. That cuts
into potential future profits and can further discourage investors.

   The big drug companies are more interested in drugs that have advanced partly
through clinical trials. So for earlier-stage biotechnology companies, the
outlook remains bleak. More than 50 of the 345 publicly traded biotechnology
companies tracked by Vector Securities will run out of cash within a year if
they continue spending at their current rates and are unable to raise new money.

   "There will be some kind of Darwinist mechanism going on here," said Franklin
Berger, an analyst with J. P. Morgan Securities. "This is the year we'll see a
final winnowing out among the biotech companies."

   For example, Cellpro Inc. of Bothell, Wash., said in September that it would
liquidate because it did not have enough money to pay damages after losing a
patent infringement suit.

   The Biofield Corporation, an Atlanta company developing a noninvasive way to
detect breast cancer, said last month that it had eliminated substantially all
of its operations and was now trying to license or sell its technology. LXR
Biotechnology Inc. of Richmond, Calif., said in October that it would
concentrate on three key programs, mainly cardiology drugs, discontinuing other
projects like an imaging system for studying genes and molecules.

   And Celtrix Pharmaceuticals Inc. laid off 90 percent of its work force,
mostly in manufacturing, in September. That cut the company's "burn rate" -- the
amount of money it loses each year - from $13 million to $2 million. The Santa
Clara, Calif., company now has only about 10 employees, who are trying to push
the company's main drug through clinical trials.

   Some analysts say companies will be forced into mergers. "The solution is
either M & A or B -- bankruptcy," the chairman of Vector Securities, D. Theodore
Berghorst, told biotechnology executives at a recent conference in San Diego run
by Biocom, a trade group.

   The Megabios Corporation and Genemedicine Inc., two gene therapy companies,
recently agreed to merge. "It gets tougher and tougher to say there will be new
investors stepping up to the plate," said Richard A. Waldron, Genemedicine's
chief financial officer.

   But a wave of mergers has long been predicted for biotechnology and has so
far failed to materialize. Some companies are selling stock in private
placements or issuing preferred stock at prices that dilute existing
shareholders. Some are trying to raise money in Europe, where investors seem
more receptive than in the United States.

   For all the worries, some executives remain confident that medical
innovations will still receive financing. "We know ultimately science will win,"
said Howard C. Birndorf, chairman of Nanogen Inc., based in San Diego. "These
products will help people, and there will be markets for them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The long research required in biotechnology can test investors'
patience. Lisa Foulard does research for Anergen. (Peter DaSilva for The New
York Times)(pg. C1)

"Failing the Litmus Test"
Outside investors, disappointed by the weak financial returns of many
biotechnology ventures, are increasingly reluctant to privide the money for
start-up companies to develop, test and sell new drugs. Biotechnology companies
are underperforming the market and have recetly had trouble raising money. Graph
tracks the percentage change in both NASDAQ composite index and the NASDAQ
biotechnology index. It also tracks the amount of money raised in biotechnology
initial public offerings (since 1991) and the percentage of all venture capital
invested in the industry (from 1995 through June 1998). (Sources: Bloomberg
Financial Markets; Recombinant Capital; PricewaterhouseCoopers)(pg. C1)

Graphs: "Survival of the Fittest"
Some larger, long-established biotechnology companies, like Immunex, have paid
off recently, but newer companies are having a harder time satisfying investors.
Graph tracks percentage changes in stock prices for Immunex, Vical, and Ligand,
since the beginning of the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1702 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 16, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY BOOSTS MUSCLE CELLS, STUDY SAYS;
RESEARCHERS WARN THAT PROCESS IS NOT YET SAFE FOR USE ON HUMAN BEINGS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study using mice. But researchers caution
that many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Swe eney,
the study's senior author.

   But before the technique is ready for humans there are ethical and safety
questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the injections
could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow.

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weakened tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced, and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus.

   The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes that would cause
disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would take scores of injections to treat each muscle in the body, the
researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," said Sweeney. "For the majority of the elderly
population, the border line between being able to walk or not can be dealt with
by targeting key muscle groups."

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology.

   The study is scheduled to appear next week in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, a scientific journal.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999


                             1703 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   December 15, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy may aid weak, aging muscles; Research on mice shows new
cell development; ethical questions remain

SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful
vigor and strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers
caution that many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the
therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said yesterday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging -- muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may occur because the muscles stop making a protein called
insulin-like growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow.

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weakened tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each muscle
in the body, the researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," said Sweeney.

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   Pub Date: 12/15/98

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998


                             1704 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                    December 15, 1998, Tuesday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Advance reported in keeping muscles young

BYLINE: By Richard A. Kno, Globe Staff

BODY:

   Researchers believe they may have found a fountain of muscular youth in a
gene that, when injected directly into skeletal muscles, keeps them from wasting
with age, and that even returns elderly muscles to youthful size and vigor.

    The genetic trick has worked so far only in mice, but its results are so
dramatic, reliable, and persistent - and free of adverse consequences so far -
that the researchers plan to try it in humans as soon as they win federal
regulators' approval.

    "For skeletal muscle it is, essentially, a fountain of youth," H. Lee
Sweeney of the University of Pennsylvania said in an interview yesterday,
shortly before presenting the results at a scientific meeting in San Francisco.

    Scientists said the research could lead to several new possibilities in
human aging and disease - preventing the muscle weakness that inevitably
accompanies aging, halting or slowing the ravages of diseases such as some types
of muscular dystrophy, and possibly even rejuvenating failing hearts.

    "It's possible we could really prevent the muscle wasting of age and greatly
improve people's 'health span,' " said Anna McCormick of the National Institute
on Aging, which helped fund the research. "Issues of side effects and ethics
have to be looked at, but that doesn't decrease our excitement that you can
actually intervene in muscle aging."

    She said Sweeney's findings and other experiments by Boston co-workers mark
"the first experimental demonstration that you can preserve muscle mass and
strength in an old animal."

    Sweeney and his colleagues injected muscles with genes for a protein called
insulin-like growth factor type 1, or IGF-1, packaged in the shell of a virus
that causes no disease. Once inside muscle cells, the gene produces an extra
boost of IGF-1, which normally sustains muscle maintenance and repair. The
effect persists for the rest of the animals' life.

    The IGF-1 gene therapy produced an average increase of 15 percent in muscle
mass and 14 percent in strength in young adult mice, and it prevented the
ravages of muscle aging.

    Perhaps more remarkably, the researchers returned old mice to the muscular
status of young adults, with a 27 percent average increase in strength in
muscles that got gene injections.

    "If we injected very old mice - the human equivalent of about 80 - they got
stronger, but we couldn't get them back to the young-adult level," the
Pennsylvania scientist said.

    In separate experiments not yet published, Nadia Rosenthal of Massachusetts
General Hospital transplanted genes for IGF-1 into mouse embryos, creating
"Arnold Schwarzenegger mice," as they're dubbed, that never suffer age-related
muscle wasting.

    The gains in muscle size and strength in Sweeney's mice occurred even though
they were sedentary. "Now we want to combine the gene injections with exercise,"
he said. "My prediction is that the injected muscles will respond much more
rapidly and with greater benefit."

    Using gene therapy to bulk up without exercise could be both a boon and a
bane. On the favorable side, it could keep many elders active and independent
even if they can't exercise enough to sustain maximal strength. A 10-15 percent
gain in strength might do, Sweeney said.

    "I hope this might be something that would allow anyone to maintain
functional muscle mass - not just the Jack LaLannes," he added, referring to the
pioneering body-builder who maintained his physique into his 70s.

    Among other things, Sweeney wants to try gene therapy in animals with
disorders that mimic muscular dystrophy, and ultimately in humans with a mild
form called Becker muscular dystrophy, which afflicts 18,000 Americans.

    "I think we're on the verge of a lot of exciting things," said Dr. Leon
Charash, chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy Association's medical advisory
board.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998


                             1705 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1998 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    December 15, 1998, Tuesday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: STUDY SHOWS NEW GENES IN OLD MUSCLES CAN RESTORE VIGOR

BYLINE: PAUL RECER; Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers caution that
many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging -- muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow,

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weaken tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each muscle
in the body, the researcher said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998


                             1706 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

             December 15, 1998, TUESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Gene lets old mice build new muscles

BODY:


   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," Sweeney said.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that improve strength and
performance.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," Sweeney said. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging -- muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulinlike growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow,

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weaken tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

GRAPHIC: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1707 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                   December 15, 1998, Tuesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy may restore aging muscles

SOURCE: Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful
vigor and strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers
caution that many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the
therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said.

   For athletes, he said, the injections could be the "perfect performance
enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a mild
form of muscular dystrophy, said Sweeney.

   But Dr. Leon Charash of Cornell University, a prominent researcher in
muscular diseases and a medical adviser to the Muscular Dystrophy Association,
said he doubted the gene therapy would have much effect on muscular dystrophy.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1708 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                    December 15, 1998, Tuesday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 25; National Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: GENE INJECTIONS PUMP VIGOR INTO OLD MICE'S MUSCLES, STUDY SHOWS

BYLINE: From Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers caution that
many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27% of the muscle lost to age when they were injected with a
gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15%, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging--muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10% of their muscle strength and mass
each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls, broken
bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make a protein called
insulin-like growth factor-1, which, in turn, led to more muscles. But the
therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection. "You would
inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or other daily functions,"
Sweeney said.

   Even if further studies succeed, Sweeney said, it will be at least two years
before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998


                             1709 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                December 15, 1998, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Gene Can Revive Muscle in Mice

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice, researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said today. But researchers caution that many
safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers said.

    For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney,
the study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, ethical and safety questions must
be resolved, Dr. Sweeney said.

   For athletes, he said, the injections could be the "perfect performance
enhancer."

   The safety issue arises because the gene that causes muscles to grow can also
cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells. "Abnormal growth could be a health
risk," Dr. Sweeney said. "For instance, you wouldn't want your heart to grow
larger."

   The experimental gene therapy will be tested next on rabbits and then on
monkeys.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998


                             1710 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                 DECEMBER 15, 1998 Tuesday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: MIGHTY MICE MAY SHOW WAY FOR SENIORS

BYLINE: Paul Recer, Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice.

   But researchers caution that many safety questions must be resolved before
they can try the therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle-cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said.

   For athletes, he said, the injections could be the "perfect performance
enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.

   "And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth-factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth-factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002


                             1711 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      DECEMBER 15, 1998 Tuesday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY HELPS OLD MICE LOOK YOUNG / TRIGGERING GROWTH HORMONE -
INSTEAD OF INJECTING IT - MAKES THEM SHED FAT AND BUILD MUSCLE SAFELY.

BYLINE: Faye Flam, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Using the most modern techniques against one of man's oldest scourges,
scientists have found a way for aging mice to regain their youthful physiques.

   Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania announced a form of gene
therapy yesterday that helped old mice reverse the clock on their bodies,
building muscle and shedding fat.

   "We're pretty excited about this," Lee Sweeney, a physiology professor at
Penn who led the research, said. "Until now, nothing's really worked for humans
or for mice."

   Sweeney injected several dozen mice with genes that instruct the muscle cells
to produce a form of growth hormone, a substance known to encourage muscle mass
and discourage buildup of fat.

   He said he hopes that the technique, which was reported in yesterday's
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, will have similar benefits for
humans. He said that it may provide a safer alternative to what he sees as a
dangerous practice: giving older people growth hormone by injection.

   Growth hormone - long used to increase the stature of children who are
deficient in the substance - does not have FDA approval for use in adults.
Nevertheless, some U.S. doctors prescribe it, and several clinics in Mexico and
the Bahamas advertise it as the proverbial fountain of youth.

   For some, there is a price: Scientists say that growth hormone can cause
serious side effects in adults, including joint pain and an elevated risk of
prostate and breast cancers.

   Sweeney said that he set out to help counter the wasting that comes from
muscular dystrophy before realizing the parallel to aging. "It struck me that
the changes in old muscles mirror changes we see in muscular dystrophy," he
said. In both cases, muscles fail to repair themselves, he explained. Muscles
are constantly broken down, but in young people they build back up.

   By the time people reach their 70s and 80s, they generally lose about
one-third of the muscle they had in youth. Mice, too, lose about one-third as
they get to the advanced age of 2. Exercise helps, but eventually the effects of
age still win.

   That is why growth hormone has become so tantalizing for some despite the
potential risks.

   "The danger is in the word growth," said Kathleen Pabst, a nurse-practitioner
who is coordinating experiments in the use of growth hormone at Johns Hopkins
University in Baltimore. If you have any incipient cancer cells, she said, "you
give growth hormone, and you're going to blossom it." The biggest risks, she
said, are breast and prostate cancers.

   Pabst said that she and her colleagues will release the results of a
six-year-long study of growth hormones and aging in mid-January. That should
clarify the relative risks and benefits, she said.

   Sweeney said he is already convinced that the side effects, especially the
cancer risk, will make direct hormone injections a poor option. He said that the
gene-therapy technique may avoid those risks because the genes would produce the
hormone only in the muscles, not in the bloodstream where it can cause harm.

   To get the genes into the muscle cells, he infected them with a harmless
virus whose destructive DNA had been removed. Such declawed viruses are a
standard tool for gene therapy, which has been used experimentally against
cystic fibrosis and other genetic diseases, as well as some forms of cancer.
This particular virus, called AAV, has proven particularly good at permanently
incorporating new genes into existing cells.

   Once in the muscle cells, these genes crank up the production of IGF-1, which
is what human growth hormone becomes once it reaches the muscles.

   Sweeney tried it in several dozen mice of varying ages. The younger ones
stayed youthful while older ones actually began to look younger.

   In humans, he said, the first trials will probably involve people with
muscular dystrophy. He said that he worries about unauthorized use among others.

   "I think there's a lot of potential for abuse once this becomes available,"
Sweeney said. Athletes might use it to gain an edge, or young people might think
it made them look better. Unlike steroids, growth hormone would be impossible to
detect with a blood test.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
Lee Sweeney injects mice with a harmless virus. The new gene technique that he
used may help humans regain youthful physiques. (The Philadelphia Inquirer,
BONNIE WELLER)
In a University of Pennsylvania lab, Lee Sweeney, a physiology professor, and
Dr. Elizabeth Barton-Davis are studying aging.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002


                             1712 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                   December 15, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: INJECTING GENES BUILDS MUSCLES IN MICE;
ETHICAL, SAFETY QUESTIONS MUST BE ANSWERED BEFORE TECHNIQUE CAN BE APPLIED TO;
HUMANS

BYLINE: PAUL RECER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers caution that
many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said yesterday. For younger mice, the gain was
about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said.

   For athletes, he said, the injections could be the "perfect performance
enhancer. You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise. And it is
not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now illegal.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the researcher said, the experimental gene therapy offers the
promise of correcting one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin-like growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow.
In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weakened tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced, and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles. But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly
receiving the injection. It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of
injections to treat each muscle in the body, the researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," said Sweeney. "For the majority of the elderly
population, the border line between being able to walk or not can be dealt with
by targeting key muscle groups."

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a mild
form of muscular dystrophy, Sweeney said.

   But Cornell University's Dr. Leon Charash, a prominent researcher in muscular
diseases and a Muscular Dystrophy Association medical adviser, said he doubted
that the gene therapy would have much effect on muscular dystrophy.

   "It might enhance the strength of the aging population," he said. "But that
will have to be very cautiously done."

   Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology.

   The study is to appear next week in the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, a scientific journal.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1713 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                     December 15, 1998 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: NEW GENE THERAPY OFFERS HOPE FOR REBUILDING AGING MUSCLES

BYLINE: By PAUL RECER; ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers caution that
many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the therapy on
humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said yesterday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said, Dr. H. Lee Sweeney the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin-like growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow,

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a mild
form of muscular dystrophy, said Sweeney.

   But Dr. Leon Charash of Cornell University, a prominent researcher in
muscular diseases and a medical adviser to the Muscular Dystrophy Association,
said he doubted the gene therapy would have much effect on muscular dystrophy.

   "It might enhance the strength of the aging population," he said. "But that
will have to be very cautiously done."

   Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology. The study is to appear next week in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, a scientific journal.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1714 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                       December 15, 1998, Tuesday , METRO

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Study shows gene therapy strengthens muscles

BYLINE: Paul Recer; Associated Press

BODY: WASHINGTON - Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful
vigor and strength, according to a laboratory study of mice. But researchers
caution that many safety questions must be resolved before they can try the
therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," said Sweeney.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," said Sweeney. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow,

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weaken tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.



   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each muscle
in the body, the researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," said Sweeney. "For the majority of the elderly
population, the border line between being able to walk or not can be dealt with
by targeting key muscle groups."

   The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1715 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                           December 15, 1998 Tuesday
                                 MORRIS EDITION

SECTION: MORRIS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Experiment produces mighty mice

BYLINE: Paul Recer, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, according to a laboratory study of mice.

    But researchers caution that many safety questions must be resolved before
they can try the therapy on humans.

    Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said yesterday.

    For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney,
the study's senior author.

    Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical
and safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

    "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," Sweeney said.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

    Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

    The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow
can also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

    "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," Sweeney said. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

    Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging - muscle feebleness, the researcher said.

    Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can cause falls,
broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

    This feebleness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein
called insulin growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow.

    In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weakened tissue.

    Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

    To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

    When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

    Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in
turn, led to more muscles.

    But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.

    It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each
muscle in the body, the researcher said.

    "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," Sweeney said.

    "For the majority of the elderly population, the border line between being
able to walk or not can be dealt with by targeting key muscle groups."

    The experimental gene therapy next will be tested on rabbits and then on
monkeys. Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least
two years before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

    The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a
mild form of muscular dystrophy, Sweeney said.

    But Dr. Leon Charash of Cornell University, a prominent researcher in
muscular diseases and a medical adviser to the Muscular Dystrophy Association,
said he doubted the gene therapy would have much effect on muscular dystrophy.
"It might enhance the strength of the aging population," he said. "But that will
have to be very cautiously done."

    A previous experimental use of IGF-1 injections to treat Lou Gehrig's
disease resulted in no side effects but also no dramatic benefits. Lou Gehrig's
disease includes degeneration of the nervous system and muscle weakness.

    Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1716 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       December 15, 1998 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. C21

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: NEW GENES GROW YOUTHFUL MUSCLES IN OLD MICE

BYLINE: By Paul Recer Ap science writer

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Injecting new genes into aging muscles can restore youthful vigor and
strength, a laboratory study of mice shows. But researchers caution that many
safety questions must be resolved before they can test the therapy on humans.

   Old mice gained 27 percent of the muscle lost to age when they were injected
with a gene that prompts muscle cell growth, the researchers at the University
of Pennsylvania Medical Center said Monday.

   For younger mice, the gain was about 15 percent, said Dr. H. Lee Sweeney, the
study's senior author.

   Before the technique is ready for humans, however, there are both ethical and
safety questions to be resolved, Sweeney said. For athletes, he said, the
injections could be the "perfect performance enhancer."

   "You build muscle mass and strength even without exercise," Sweeney said.
"And it is not detectable in the blood."

   Olympic athletes are routinely tested for drugs that artificially improve
strength and performance. Most such drugs are now outlawed.

   The safety issue arises because the same gene that causes muscles to grow can
also cause the overgrowth of unwanted cells.

   "Abnormal growth could be a health risk," Sweeney said. "For instance, you
wouldn't want your heart to grow larger."

   Nonetheless, the experimental gene therapy offers the promise of correcting
one of the major problems of aging -- muscle weakness, the researcher said.

   Some experts estimate that humans lose 10 percent of their muscle strength
and mass each decade after the age of 50. Weakness from old age can result in
falls, broken bones and loss of the ability to walk or care for oneself.

   This weakness may be caused because the muscles stop making a protein called
insulin-like growth factor-1, or IGF-1, which causes new cells to grow,

   In muscle tissue, that protein sends a signal to satellite cells, which are
immature cells within the muscle tissue. The signal turns the satellite cells
into functional muscle cells, which then replace damaged or weakened tissue.

   Without the IGF-1 signal, muscle cells that wear out or become injured are
not replaced and a person becomes weaker.

   To deliver the growth factor gene, the researchers used what is called an
adeno-associated virus. The scientists first stripped the virus of any genes
that would cause disease, then inserted the gene for the growth factor.

   When it was injected into mouse muscle, the altered virus quickly infected
nearby cells, delivering the growth factor gene but causing no other infection.

   Once in place, the new gene caused the muscles to make IGF-1, which, in turn,
led to more muscles.

   But the therapy worked only in the muscles directly receiving the injection.
It would thus be "cumbersome" and take scores of injections to treat each muscle
in the body, the researcher said.

   "Instead, you would inject only into the muscles necessary for walking or
other daily functions," Sweeney said. "For the majority of the elderly
population, the borderline between being able to walk or not can be dealt with
by targeting key muscle groups."

   The experimental gene therapy will be tested on rabbits and then on monkeys.
Even if those studies go smoothly, Sweeney said, it will be at least two years
before the gene therapy is ready for human experiments.

   The researchers would first like to use the technique on patients with a mild
form of muscular dystrophy, Sweeney said.

   But Dr. Leon Charash of Cornell University, a prominent researcher in
muscular diseases and a medical adviser to the Muscular Dystrophy Association,
said he doubted the gene therapy would have much effect on muscular dystrophy.

   "It might enhance the strength of the aging population," he said. "But that
will have to be very cautiously done."

   A previous experimental use of IGF-1 injections to treat Lou Gehrig's disease
resulted in no side effects but also no dramatic benefits. Lou Gehrig's disease
includes degeneration of the nervous system and muscle weakness.

   Sweeney presented his study at a San Francisco meeting of the American
Society for Cell Biology.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998


                             1717 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   December 15, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Muscle strength restored in mice Treatment might combat aging

BYLINE: Kathleen Fackelmann

BODY:

   A gene therapy technique has reversed the age-related loss of
muscular strength in mice, says a study out today.

   Success in mouse studies is a long way from success in humans,
researchers caution. Still, the same method might provide humans
with a way to rebuild the muscle lost to the ravages of time.


   "It's a couch potato's dream," says researcher H. Lee Sweeney
of the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia.
Instead of exercising to boost strength, aging humans might turn
to injections to restore their lost vigor. The treatment could
be provided within a decade, he says.

   Sweeney and his team knew that a protein called insulin-like growth
factor played a role in getting damaged muscle to repair itself,
a process that is impaired in old age. To deliver their treatment,
they turned to a virus related to the common cold that had been
stripped of its disease-causing potential.

   The researchers engineered the virus to carry the gene for a synthetic
version of insulin-like growth factor. When injected into the
legs of mice, the viruses get into muscle cells where they direct
the production of insulin-like growth factor.

   Young mice given injections of virus-containing solution showed
a 15% increase in muscle strength. The mice were equivalent to
20-year-old humans, says Sweeney, who presented his team's findings
at annual meeting of the American Society of Cell Biology held
in San Francisco.

   Gene therapy improved muscular strength by 27% in mice that were
the same biological age as 80-year-old humans. The treatment fully
restored muscular strength lost to aging, Sweeney says.

   "This appears to be a spectacular growth factor -- at least in
mice," says Leon Charash, chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy
Association (MDA) medical advisory committee. The Tucson-based
MDA funded Sweeney's study.

   If additional studies confirm the method's safety, researchers
might start trying the gene therapy in humans with muscular dystrophy
within the next few years, Sweeney adds.

   But the research is sure to raise ethical concerns. Sweeney says
the method also might prove a tempting way for athletes to enhance
their muscular prowess.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998


                             1718 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   December 15, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z15

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy May Prevent Muscle Loss in the Elderly; Growth Factor
Used to Promote Repair, Regeneration

BYLINE: Susan Okie, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:






   Researchers reported yesterday that they have successfully used gene therapy
in mice to prevent age-related loss of muscle strength, and they predict that
the technique may work equally well in elderly people.

   The experimental treatment, which has not yet been tested in humans or other
primates, involves injecting muscles with a genetically engineered virus that
has had most of its own genes removed and replaced with genes for manufacturing
a hormone-like messenger protein. The messenger, called insulin-like growth
factor 1 (IGF-1), induces muscle repair and regeneration.

   Loss of strength and muscle mass has long been viewed as an inescapable part
of aging. It is also a prominent feature of such diseases as muscular dystrophy.
Researchers have experimented with administering hormones, including growth
hormone and testosterone, to prevent or reverse muscle loss in the elderly, with
varying success. However, there are concerns that taking such hormones could
promote growth of some cancers as well as posing other health risks.

   The gene therapy treatment may offer a strategy for boosting muscle strength
without such hazards because it doesn't elevate blood levels of IGF-1 or other
hormones, said H. Lee Sweeney, a professor of physiology at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia. "You don't want abnormal growth
of tissue in general," he said. "Muscle is where you would like growth."

   He expressed concern, however, that if the new treatment proves safe and
successful in humans, it might be sought by athletes eager for a competitive
edge or by people who merely want well-muscled bodies without exercise.

   Sweeney, who led a team from Penn and Massachusetts General Hospital,
reported the findings yesterday in San Francisco at the annual meeting of the
American Society for Cell Biology. The study is to be published in the Dec. 22
issue of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Science.

   Sweeney said in an interview that when the experimental treatment was given
to mice whose age was approximately equivalent to 60 years in a human, it
restored their muscle strength to that of young adult mice.

   Normal age-related changes in muscle include loss of mass, loss of
contractile strength and selective loss of the fastest-working muscle fibers.
Muscle cells cannot divide, so they are repaired and maintained by other cells
in muscles called satellite cells, which divide and produce new cells that fuse
with existing muscle cells to repair damage. As animals age, however, satellite
cells--though still healthy--perform their job less actively.

   "Somehow the muscle is not signaling them anymore to undergo divisions and
thus repair the muscle," Sweeney said.

   The experimental treatment apparently works by turning up the signal.
Researchers used a virus called adeno-associated virus, which often infects
humans but produces no known disease, and removed the genes that the virus uses
to make copies of itself. They inserted the gene for IGF-1, the messenger that
stimulates satellite cell activity, as well as a promoter gene that would boost
manufacture of the messenger. They then injected the gene-carrying virus into
the hind limbs of mice. Several months later, they killed the mice, removed a
major hind limb muscle, and measured its size and strength in treated and
untreated animals. They also measured IGF-1 levels within the treated muscle.

   In young adult mice--treated at two months of age and examined at six months
of age--the muscle's average mass increased by 15 percent and its strength
increased by 14 percent.

   In old mice, the effects were more dramatic. When mice were treated at 18 or
24 months of age and examined at 27 months, muscle mass increased by 19 percent
and strength increased by 27 percent compared with untreated animals. In
addition, the treatment completely prevented the loss of fast-contracting muscle
fibers that normally occurs with aging.

   Sweeney said experiments showed the new genes were permanently spliced into
chromosomes within the muscle cells that took up the virus. These cells then
began producing high levels of IGF-1, which stimulated muscle repair by
neighboring satellite cells. The IGF-1 remained in the muscle; blood levels of
the protein never became elevated, and the mice suffered no apparent ill effects
from treatment.

   He said the treatment's safety must be tested in monkeys before a human trial
can begin. He predicted the first human study may be done in people with
Becker's muscular dystrophy, an inherited disorder that produces progressive
muscle damage and currently has no effective treatment.

   He added that the gene therapy's biggest risk might be injecting too high a
dose of the engineered virus, thereby causing a muscle to produce so much IGF-1
that blood levels of the protein would rise. But he said that could probably be
avoided by giving small doses in multiple injections and carefully measuring the
effect.

   Sweeney said the results in very elderly mice offer the hope that gene
therapy for muscles might restore significant strength to very elderly people.
In mice that were the equivalent of the human age of 80, he said, "we still got
a 15 or 20 percent increase in strength, so . . . it's probably enough to bring
back a lot of function."

   Although the major therapeutic use of such a treatment would likely be in the
elderly, elite athletes might be attracted to it because it would be
undetectable on routine blood tests, Sweeney said.

   And, he added, some people might want it just for the cosmetic effect.

   "You could imagine . . . people saying, 'Why should I wait till I'm old if I
can take such a treatment and it will make me stronger while I sit and watch
TV?' "

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998


                             1719 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1998 Daily News, L.P.
                             Daily News (New York)

                           December 14, 1998, Monday

SECTION: Health & Fitness; Pg.  40

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: NOTE WORTHY

BODY:


   BREAST CANCER UPDATE

   Evista study reported

   Not all side effects are bad. Scientists announced over the weekend that
continuing studies of the osteoporosis drug raloxifene hydrochloride marketed as
Evista confirm its ability to reduces breast cancer by 55% among post-menopausal
women who continue taking it three years or longer.

   As for osteoporosis, Evista was found to reduce the risk of spinal fractures
"by half" among women who have existing osteoporosis suggesting that it can be
used to treat as well as prevent the disease that cripples thousands of older
women, says Angela Sekston, a spokeswoman for the drug manufacturer, Lilly.

   Also, Evista appears to have a cardiovascular benefit, Sekston says. Women
who take it have "signficantly" lower levels of cholesterol both in LDL, or
"bad" cholesterol and in total cholesterol, and it reduces blood levels of
fibrinogen, which are fat-like substances.

   The study of over 10,000 women was reported at the San Antonio Breast Cancer
Symposium by V. Craig Jordan, Ph.D., of the Lynn Sage Breast Cancer Research
Program at Northwestern University and head of Evista oncology advisory board.
The women were 31 to 80 years old and took Evista daily for up to 55 months.

   - Susan Ferraro

   ATTACK ON PAIN

   Drug helps ease neuropathic ailments

   The drug gabapentin, which is an anti-convulsant that has been used to treat
people with epilepsy, may find a new career as an analgesic for people with
severe neuropathic pain.

   Two studies in the Journal of the American Medical Association suggest that
gabapentin is useful in relieving pain in patients suffering from diabetic
neuropathy and those with shingles. An editorial suggests the drug may become
the treatment of choice for those two ailments, that it markedly improves the
quality of life for patients and that researchers should look for other
applications where gabapentin may help relieve pain.

   GENE THERAPY

   Blood vessel growth may help humans

   Using gene therapy techniques, researchers at Stanford University have caused
adult mice to begin growing new blood vessels in much the way that they do as
embryos.

   The discovery could help scientists find ways to cause humans to grow new
blood vessels as needed to revascularize a diseased heart or help diabetics
avoid the loss of limbs because of a lack of blood supply to tissue.

   The Stanford scientists, led by Helen Blau, a molecular pharmacologist,
inserted into the leg muscles of the mice a gene that produces a growth protein
that in turn stimulated blood vessel growth.

   "It suggests that embryonic-like stem cells in the circulation of adults can
be recruited to build new structures," Blau said of her finding.

   - With Daily News Wire Reports

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998


                             1720 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                December 13, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 38;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Merger Wave Spurs a New Scrutiny

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

BODY:

   With a huge plateful of large and complex corporate mergers to review and a
host of major civil enforcement cases against corporate America's biggest names,
antitrust officials are experiencing a renaissance.

   Federal officials report that they have filed a record number of challenges
this year to mergers and other anticompetitive practices and have collected
record amounts in civil fines and other penalties.

    They have stretched some old antitrust theories and applied a few new ones
-- such as now routinely requiring every merger examination to include a look at
how the proposed deal may affect product innovation and development. Their
targets have been a Who's Who among corporate powerhouses and include Microsoft
and Intel, Mastercard and Visa, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman.

   "Antitrust is a highly political discipline, and it tends to ebb and flow,"
said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa College of Law and
the author of a leading treatise on the subject. "It's flowing right now."

   In part, the renewed vigor is a consequence of two related economic trends:
the deregulation of certain industries and the unparalleled wave of business
mergers and acquisitions.

   In the fiscal year ending on Sept. 30, the Justice Department and the Federal
Trade Commission, the two main agencies that enforce United States antitrust
law, examined 4,728 proposed mergers, more than at any other time, and three
times as many deals as in 1992.

   As a result of the merger-and-acquisition wave, the agencies are now
reviewing five of the largest business transactions in American history: the
proposed $80 billion acquisition of the Mobil Corporation by Exxon, the $62
billion purchase of Ameritech by SBC Communications, Bell Atlantic's $52 billion
acquisition of GTE, AT&T's $32 billion purchase of Tele-Communications Inc. and
British Petroleum's $48 billion buyout of Amoco.

   However the agencies rule on those deals -- they can seek to have them
blocked or modified, or they can simply approve them -- their aggressive view of
the law has already made them a central force in setting economic policy in a
wide range of industries left untouched by other policy makers.

   Stepping into a vacuum created by the deregulation of such industries as
airlines and telecommunications, they have restructured or blocked numerous
multibillion-dollar mergers and joint-venture agreements that once fell under
the purview of other officials. For the first time since the airline industry
was deregulated in the late 1970's, they filed a lawsuit two months ago to
prevent a big airline merger, one involving Northwest Airlines' acquisition of
Continental.

   But through such civil suits as the Microsoft case, they are also evolving
into the role of overseeing emerging areas of enterprise like the Internet, and
through challenges of proposed mergers involving large and small research and
development companies, they are playing an important role in arranging the
corporate landscape in biotechnology.

   Despite these trends, some experts said that the vigorous enforcement was
still less aggressive than at other points in history, such as the 1930's and
the 1960's, and noted that the new vigor was not a consequence of any
significant Supreme Court victories involving the nation's competition laws or
any major revisions of the guidelines that are used to scrutinize mergers.

   "Interestingly, there have not been any major doctrinal changes," said George
L. Priest, a professor of law and economics at Yale University.

   "They are using some different theories, and they are trimming some proposed
mergers back in order to facilitate them," he added. "But they are also
sometimes bringing cases without articulating a clear theory or vision about
what they are trying to accomplish."

   Joel I. Klein, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, said
that antitrust enforcement "reflects a point of historic convergence involving a
commitment of deregulation and competition."

   "The essential component of that confluence is active antitrust enforcement,"
he said.

   By all accounts, the Clinton Administration's enforcement record is a marked
departure from those of Republican predecessors. During the Reagan
Administration and to a lesser extent under President George Bush, the antitrust
division and the F.T.C. were backwaters that suffered from severe staff
cutbacks. Particularly under Mr. Reagan, they followed a laissez-faire
philosophy that found little value in broad enforcement of antitrust law.

   "Their attitude was that everything was self-correcting," said Robert
Pitofsky, an antitrust professor and former dean at Georgetown Law School, who
is now the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. "But as time has gone on,
we've seen how wrong that was."

   The two agencies continue to suffer from staff shortages, having never
recovered from the cutbacks in the 80's. Because of the large number of mergers,
they have been forced to undertake a kind of regulatory triage, delaying and
thinly staffing civil enforcement inquiries in order to complete merger reviews
under the deadlines set by Congress.

   Nonetheless, the agencies are doing things that have not been done in a long
time, if at all, using novel legal theories and stretching more conventional
ones.

   For instance, recognizing that research in many emerging industries is
ultimately more important than the products they may make, the officials have
ordered the redrawing of mergers of companies that are in nascent
research-and-development stages, years away from production.

   In a case involving the merger of the Swiss-based drug giants Ciba-Geigy and
Sandoz, the Federal Trade Commission required the sale of patents and
technological know-how involving their pioneering research in gene therapy for
various diseases, even though the companies did not expect to bring any such
products to market for years.

   With greater frequency, they have also taken a more concentrated look at the
effect of a merger on new companies rather than the older, more conventional
analysis that looks at whether a merger has a likelihood of promoting collusion
and oligopolies in a wide range of industries from retailing to military
contracting.

   This "theory of unilateral effects" was first articulated by an economist in
1929. But it was never widely used by regulators because it was thought to be
too difficult to gather market data.

   With technological advances, such as the use of price scanners in stores and
the proliferation of powerful personal computers, it has become easier to
manipulate data and apply the theory.

   The result, according to Mr. Hovenkamp, "is more aggressive enforcement."

   They are also been challenging mergers involving so-called vertical
integration -- when a supplier buys a manufacturer or a manufacturer buys a
wholesaler.

   At the Federal Trade Commission, officials restructured four important
mergers in the last year either in whole or in part because of questions of
improper vertical integration. One such case involved the $10 billion purchase
of the Energy Group P.L.C. of Britain, which produced about 15 percent of the
coal in the United States, by Pacificorp, a leading Western utility. (Pacificorp
itself agreed this week to be acquired by Scottish Power P.L.C. for nearly $13
billion in equity and debt.)

   Antitrust officials required the divestiture of certain coal mines that would
have enabled the new combination to raise a rival's generating costs, and as a
result, the wholesale price of electricity in the West.

   In another case, the officials forced TRW Inc. to sell a Pentagon engineering
business as a condition of its $975 million purchase of BDM International to
satisfy concerns that the deal would not put TRW in a position to favor itself
as a competitor for ballistics missile contracts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Deals, Busier Investigators"
The number of mergers and acquisitions has been rising sharply through the
1990's. As the number of merger filings has increased, and their value has
soared, so have the number of antitrust investigations. Chart shows statistics
on mergers, and antitrust investigations since 1994.
(Source: Department of Justice, Federal Trade Commission)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998


                             1721 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                          December 12, 1998, Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS , Pg. 2H

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: MONEY-LOSING PROGENITOR FACES TOUGH CHOICES ON FUTURE

BYLINE: Barnet D. Wolf , Dispatch Business Reporter

BODY:


   A former Columbus company that was founded six years ago to commercialize
cell and gene therapy research at Ohio University's Edison Biotechnology
Institute appears to be on the brink of failure.

   Progenitor Inc. said yesterday that it has not been able to secure the money
it needs to continue operations at its current level.

   A meeting of Progenitor's board of directors has been scheduled for next week
to review alternatives for the company, including a sale, a merger or closure,
followed by a sale of all of its assets.

   Investment-banking firm Lehman Bros., which managed Progenitor's initial
public offering last year, was retained to assist in the decision.

   Progenitor's stock has been in the doldrums since the public offering in
August 1997.

   The shares were launched at $ 7 per share but fell more than 20 percent the
first day of trading. Share prices have been sliding steadily since.

   Yesterday, Progenitor stock dropped 1/4 to 3/8 per share in trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.

   That means the stock has dropped nearly 85 percent in value this year.

   During the first three quarters of its 1998 fiscal year, Progenitor lost $
10.6 million, nearly three times the loss from the previous year's nine-month
period.

   The greater loss was due to higher research-and-development expenses.

   Progenitor's chief financial officer, Mark N.K. Bagnall, would not project
results for the fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, but he indicated they would
not be good.

   ''The information (released yesterday) speaks for itself,'' he said.

   Progenitor was formed in 1992. Massachusetts-based Interneuron
Pharmaceuticals is the largest shareholder with a 40 percent stake in the
company, Bagnall said.

   Venture-capital companies own another 25 percent of Progenitor's stock and
Amgen controls about 5 percent.

   Among Progenitor's licenses are genetic weight-loss and tumor-reducing
technology.

   Shortly after its initial public offering, Progenitor swapped $ 22 million of
its shares to acquire Menlo Park, Calif.-based Mercator Genetics Inc.

   At that point it moved the corporate headquarters to its new subsidiary's
offices.

   The company employs 55 people.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998


                             1722 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                      December 12, 1998 Saturday, ORLEANS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: GROUND FLOOR ON GENE THERAPY

BODY:

   Find the next big thing and then get a jump on it -- that's a good formula
for economic development, and it's fueling a plan to launch a gene therapy
research program in New Orleans.

   The Legislature directed the Louisiana Gene Therapy Task Force in May to
study the feasibility of such a program, and the task force, headed jointly by
the medical schools of Tulane and Louisiana State universities, has come back
with an intriguing preliminary proposal.

   A $44 million commitment from the state over five years would put Louisiana
into the biomedical business, the task force concluded, although support from
private industry would also be needed. The state's contribution would set up a
telecommunications network, renovate Charity Hospital to serve as headquarters
and create a state-of-the-art laboratory that could develop human gene therapy
medicines.

   There's a lot to like about this proposal. It's a statewide initiative that
links together quite a few institutions: Tulane and LSU medical centers, the
primate centers of Tulane and the University of Southwestern Louisiana and the
University of New Orleans Research and Technology Park, to name a few. The
cooperation between Tulane and LSU medical schools on the task force is laudable
in itself

   Putting our strong players together to compete nationally is smart; so is
using our universities and medical schools as economic development engines.

   While $44 million is a big investment, it's similar to what the state has
done for other initiatives that promise to bring good jobs to the state, such as
the $40 million high-tech ship design center the state financed for Avondale
Industry Inc. in partnership with the University of New Orleans. Other examples
are the UNO Research and Technology Park and the luring of the Navy's software
development and computer center.

   The latter spurred talk of a Software South or Silicon Swamp. While gene
therapy doesn't lend itself quite so easily to clever catch-phrases, it's being
touted as the future of medicine, offering the possibility of cures and
treatments for a host of diseases caused by defective genes, from heart disease
to cystic fibrosis.

   And while Louisiana is surely not the only state that has figured this out,
we seem to be ahead of the curve instead of behind it. The key is getting
involved early enough, said Andy Kopplin, a special assistant to Gov. Foster.
"Five years ago, we would have been too early; five years from now would be too
late."

   That's a narrow window, and from an economic standpoint, this isn't the best
time to seek startup money from the state. Revenue is flattening, there's
turmoil in the oil industry and demands on state government, from improving
teacher pay to fixing crumbling highways, are many.

   "We need to make careful decisions with limited resources, and the basis upon
which to make that is whether we get something back," Mr. Kopplin said. "And
there's a good chance of that."

   The task force has more homework to do before it takes its proposal to the
Legislature in March. Among the questions: what other funding is available, what
kind of financial return can the state expect, what kind of administrative
structure will the program have and what will the accountability measures be?

   But those are questions the task force should be able to answer, and if the
return looks attractive, Louisiana would be wise to stake out a place at the
forefront of the biomedical industry.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998


                             1723 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                    December 9, 1998 Wednesday, ST. TAMMANY

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: MILLION-DOLLAR GENES;
TAMMANY HAS ROLE IN GENETICS PROJECT

BYLINE: By Ezra Hodge St. Tammany bureau

BODY:

   A $44 million commitment from the state Legislature to develop a gene therapy
research program in New Orleans in the next several years could mature into a
multibillion dollar biotechnology industry within 10 to 20 years, with a St.
Tammany Parish center playing a key role, proponents of the foundation said.

   The prediction was part of a preliminary report by the Louisiana Gene Therapy
Task Force, which was charged by the state Senate in May to study the
feasibility of developing a gene therapy program. The report was presented to
members of the Senate and House health and welfare committees during a meeting
Tuesday at Tulane University's Primate Research Center near Covington.

   Spearheaded jointly by the medical centers of Tulane and Louisiana State
universities, the final results of the study are to be complete by March 1.

   If the state backs the effort, the two schools predict Louisiana will move to
the forefront of cutting-edge gene therapy research and development.

   Gene therapies promise to be the medical miracles of the next century,
offering cures and treatments for an array of diseases by correcting defective
genes that cause such abnormalities as cancer, heart disease and cystic
fibrosis, and by creatively combating other diseases, such as AIDS.

   "I think that the genetics revolution will have an economic impact similar to
the information revolution," Tulane Chancellor John LaRosa said.  "You have no
idea what it means to control genes. It's like controlling the weather."

   LaRosa and LSU Chancellor Mervin Trail explained that in order for the
research program to work, it will need statewide cooperation between
organizations and researchers involved with genetic research and related fields.

   Part of the $44 million from the state, which would be distributed over five
years, according to the task force's proposal, would be used to create a
telecommunications network to share information among participating
institutions.

   Participants would most likely include Tulane and LSU medical centers,
Tulane's primate center, the Shreveport LSU Medical Center, the University of
Southwestern Louisiana's Primate Research Center, the University of New Orleans
Research and Technology Park, the Ruston Institute for Micromanufacturing, the
Pennington Biomedical Research Center of Baton Rouge, the Center for Advanced
Manufacturing Devices in Baton Rouge, LSU veterinary and agriculture schools,
and the Biomed Research Foundation of Northwest Louisiana.

   By combining Louisiana's genetic research resources, the state has the
potential to compete with the nation's biomedical heavyweights, said Nicole
Baute, staff coordinator of the task force and assistant director of Tulane
Medical Center's technology development program.

   "This is one of the most exciting things I've heard of since I've been in the
Legislature," said state Sen. Donald Hines, D-Bunkie, chairman of the Senate's
Health and Welfare Committee.

   He compared it to creating a single college football team with all the best
players in the state.  "We'd be in the top 10 every year," he said.

   Task force representatives, who proposed calling the joint effort the
Louisiana GeneticsNET, said the state is not going to be the sole source of
financing, as the proposed organization would heavily appeal to private industry
for support.

   LaRosa said he expects private industry to wholeheartedly support a
collaborative gene therapy effort in Louisiana. To make his point, he took the
opportunity to announce Tulane was recently awarded an $8 million grant from
Columbia/HCA to develop the school's gene therapy clinical research program.

   Coups such as this, he said, would benefit all of the participating
organizations, if the Louisiana GeneticsNET becomes a reality, as the resources
of one institution would become the shared resources of all involved.

   Of the $44 million, the task force is requesting $6 million to renovate
Charity Hospital to be its headquarters, and $15 million to develop a
state-of-the-art laboratory capable of developing human gene therapy medicines.
No such laboratory exists in the state. The rest of the money would be used for
start-up/recruiting and operating costs for five years.

   "This is the skeleton of what we'll propose," to the Legislature in March,
said Peter Gerone, director of Tulane's Primate Center, which is heavily
involved in genetic research.  "If people have ideas or concerns, they should be
expressed now."

GRAPHIC: State Sen. Donald Hines, chairman of the Senate Health and Welfare
Committee, examines a slide of cystic fibrosis from the lung of a monkey while
other lawmakers listen to a presentation on Krabbe's disease in the
Histopathology Lab at Tulane's Primate Research Center. [COLOR] Scientist Vicki
Traina-Dodge shows how DNA sequencing can isolate particular genes for use in
gene therapy, in the molecular research lab at Tulane's Primate Research Center.
Senators and representatives heard the preliminary report of the Louisiana Gene
Therapy Task Force and toured the center. [COLOR] 2 STAFF PHOTOS BY MICHAEL
DeMOCKER

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998


                             1724 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                    December 8, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Heart disease therapy planting seeds of revolution

BYLINE: Steve Sternberg

BODY:

   Last spring, Floyd Stokes could barely pull on his boots, much
less work his Texas farm. Any exertion brought on angina, a searing
warning from a blood-starved heart.

   "I never tried to walk 100 yards," he says. "If I wanted something,
and it was 100 yards away from me, I didn't go."

   This fall, Stokes was back on his feet, helping his two farmhands
harvest 950 acres of peanuts and cotton. They had the crops cleared
by Thanksgiving.


   What changed?

   In May, Stokes' doctor injected the genetic seeds of a new circulatory
system into Stokes' heart, through a small incision between his
ribs. The injection prompted the growth of tiny new blood vessels,
circumventing the blockages in Stokes' arteries within three months.

   These vessels restored blood flow to Stokes' heart muscle. It
was a bypass without major surgery -- and, at least for Stokes,
it worked.

   "Right now, I can't do anything to make me have angina," Stokes
says. "Even after I had bypass surgery, I never felt as good
as I do now. Really."

   Stokes was one of a handful of people in a preliminary study by
Jeffrey Isner and his colleagues at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center
in Boston. It is among a flurry of studies heralding what enthusiasts
hope will be a new era in the treatment of artery disease.

   Bypass the surgery

   "Think of this as regenerative gene therapy -- you take diseased
adult organs and return them to youth," says Ronald Crystal of
New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, who pioneered the technique
for cystic fibrosis. He is testing it in heart disease.

   "We believe if you can deliver genes to the heart this way, it
would represent a revolution in cardiovascular medicine," says
Chris Reinhardt of Collateral Therapeutics in San Diego, a for-profit
biotech firm testing a competing approach to the biological bypass.
"There would be no need to crack open the chest, graft veins
from the leg or anything like that."

   Not every doctor is ready, however, to project that far into the
future.

   "It's a sexy new idea, but it's largely unproven," says David
Brewster, a vascular surgeon at Boston's Massachusetts General
Hospital. "The prevailing surgical opinion at the moment is somewhat
skeptical. It's a potentially exciting area that needs a lot of
further work."

   No one questions the need for better ways to treat arterial blockages,
which cause chest pain, heart attacks, strokes and unrelenting
leg pain.

   When genes are injected into humans, they churn out growth factors
for a matter of weeks. Eventually, they lose their effectiveness,
which in heart disease is a good thing. Otherwise, renegade blood
vessels could sprout like weeds. In other chronic diseases --
those that require healthy genes to function for a lifetime --
gene therapy hasn't been as rewarding.

   Even at this early stage, doctors say, heart disease research
may bring the coming of age of gene therapy. "It could become
the first widespread use of gene therapy to treat what is a very
widespread problem," says Michael Mann of Brigham and Women's
Hospital at Harvard University in Boston.

   Small-scale studies

   And though the approach has been tried only in a handful of small-scale
studies, it has spawned an international race to develop the best
biobypass, using a variety of techniques involving genes or proteins.

   "The field is just exploding," Crystal says.

   Enthusiasm is grounded in the hardship and mixed record of bypass
surgery and angioplasty. They are the best available treatments
for heart and blood vessel disease, the leading killer in the
USA.

   Nonetheless, Mann says, about half of the 500,000 bypass operations
done each year ultimately fail. They fail because the veins used
to bypass blockages in arteries never adapt to their new role
as part of an artery.

   Reaming out the blockage using a balloon-tipped catheter also
has limitations. About 30% of the more than 600,000 balloon angioplasties
done annually fail because the artery closes. Small tubes called
stents have helped by propping open those arteries, but they have
not solved the problem, studies show.

   And at least 100,000 people a year develop the blocked arteries,
primarily in the legs, known as peripheral vascular disease. Some
people can't be helped with surgery or angioplasty. Their limbs
ache. They develop skin ulcers that won't heal. Sometimes, surgeons
must amputate the affected limb.

   Cancer insight

   The new approach to artery disease is a byproduct of three decades
of cancer research by Judah Folkman at Children's Hospital in
Boston. Folkman was determined to find a way to deprive tumors
of the blood supply they rely on for growth.

   In a major breakthrough a decade ago, Folkman found the stimulant
that prompts tissues to grow blood vessels. It is called vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Although Folkman's efforts have
not helped people with cancer, they have touched off a burgeoning
field of heart disease research.

   Ironically, tumors are a potential pitfall of the technique even
when used for heart disease, researchers say. VEGF is a growth
factor, and doctors have long realized that its use could promote
the growth of blood vessels where they don't belong. In some cases,
they feared, the injections would lead to hemangiomas, tangles
of abnormal blood-vessel tissue.

   A study indicates that this risk is real, at least in rats.

   Robert Kloner of Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles injected
VEGF into the hearts of rats suffering heart attacks to see whether
it would limit damage to the heart muscle.

   "The rats developed little hemangiomas where the VEGF was injected,"
Isner says of the study, reported at an American Heart Association
meeting in Dallas last month. "I've seen the slides, studied
them with (Kloner) and tried to figure out how to put this in
perspective -- and find out whether it is relevant for patients."

   Studies have shown that some people don't develop adequate circulation
to bypass an arterial blockage. A key question is why the technique
succeeds in some people but not others -- and how to determine
who the potential winners are.

   Some reluctance

   "There would be circumstances where something like this could
be very useful to the patient," especially those who are poor
candidates for other methods, says Robert Rutherford, emeritus
professor of surgery at the University of Colorado and editor
of a major textbook on vascular surgery. "The concern is, the
technique has not been proven in a controlled trial."

   To do the large-scale studies needed to prove the effectiveness
of the technique, however, doctors need large numbers of patients,
and Isner says vascular surgeons appear reluctant to refer their
patients to him even for preliminary studies.

   "Ninety-five percent of our patients are self-referred," Isner
says. Most learned of the technique in media reports.

   Some vascular surgeons aren't enthusiastic about the procedure,
in part because they make their living by surgically repairing
blood vessels.

   "If it proves successful, it would reduce the need for surgery,"
says Brewster of Massachusetts General. "Naturally patients are
attracted to it, because they feel that anything that doesn't
have the word 'surgery' attached to it is appealing."

   Brewster says he hasn't referred any of the curious patients to
Isner or other doctors experimenting with grow-your-own bypasses
because none had inoperable artery blockages, were in constant
pain or faced the loss of a limb. He says he would readily refer
patients who were out of other options.

   Stokes was one. "My doctor told me I was up against the wall.
He couldn't do anything else for me." He says he would probably
have died if he had not stumbled upon news reports of Isner's
study.

   "It's a great story," Stokes says. "It has a happy ending."

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, USA TODAY (Illustration); GRAPHIC, B/W, Dave Merrill,
Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: Collateral Therapeutics Inc. (Illustration);
PHOTOS, B/W, C.J. Gunther for USA TODAY (2); Fit to work again: Floyd Stokes of
DeLeon, Texas, takes a stress test under the watchful eyes of exercise
physiologist Laurie Gilman.  Pioneer: Jeffrey Isner is in the vanguard of gene
therapy.

LOAD-DATE: December 08, 1998


                             1725 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                    December 8, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Studies use DNA to grow blood vessels, treat vein grafts

BYLINE: Steve Sternberg

BODY:

   Among the studies on gene therapy for heart disease reported at
last month's American Heart Association meeting and satellite
sessions in Dallas:

   * Jeffrey Isner and colleagues at St. Elizabeth's Medical
Center in Boston injected "naked DNA" -- genes for vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) that haven't been inserted into
a carrier cell -- into people with blood vessel disease. They
have tried the procedure in about 90 people with blocked leg veins
and 16 with blocked coronary arteries.

   Six of the 11 heart patients followed for at least three months
no longer suffer chest pain. The use of nitroglycerin tablets
to ease pain plummeted from an average of 60 per week to 2.5.
Isner's group is working with Human Genome Sciences of Rockville,
Md., to bring the method to market.

   * Ronald Crystal and colleagues at New York Hospital-Cornell
Medical Center injected more than 20 heart disease patients with
VEGF genes enclosed in a cold virus that was weakened so it wouldn't
cause illness. The treatment was tolerated well, and the patients
reported feeling better. They also performed better on treadmill
tests, says Crystal, whose work is supported by GenVac of Rockville,
Md., and Warner Lambert of Morris Plains, N.J.

   * Michael Mann and colleagues of Brigham and Women's Hospital
at Harvard University in Boston have done 17 bypasses of leg arteries
using veins treated after their removal with genes that halt the
changes that lead to graft failure. Five of the 17 vein grafts
failed, compared with 10 of 16 untreated grafts. While Mann was
meeting with reporters at the AHA meeting, his colleague Victor
Dzau hurried off to meet with representatives of a surgical device
company eager to commercialize the method.

   * Seppo Yla-Herttuala of the University of Kuopio in Finland
reported favorable results in a trial of 15 patients, 10 of whom
were given a fragment of the gene for VEGF. Five served as controls.

   * Kirk Hammond and his colleagues at Collateral Therapeutics
in San Diego are about to start a 100-patient trial of the gene
for a different substance, fibroblast growth factor, encased in
a weakened cold virus, to see whether it also can improve blood
flow to the heart. They deliver the gene to the heart through
a catheter to eliminate surgery.

   * Ted McClusky of Genentech in South San Francisco says
a clinical trial of VEGF protein -- not the gene but the protein
the gene makes -- produced new blood vessels in 10 of 26 people.
Four of the 26 had fewer vessels, an indication that the therapy
didn't take and the obstruction had worsened. Twelve were unchanged.
The study was designed only to determine the best dose of the
protein, not to test its effectiveness.

LOAD-DATE: December 08, 1998


                             1726 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    December 07, 1998, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3447 words

HEADLINE: Dreams Give Rise to an Industry; Government Serves as Key Funding Link
To Tech Firms

BYLINE: Peter Behr and Linton Weeks, Washington Post Staff Writers

BODY:


   Second of three articles


   On Feb. 2, 1970, Ivan Selin and four colleagues walked away from some of the
most important jobs in the Pentagon to start their own consulting firm.

   To Selin, who recalls the date from memory, it was "a very scary day." The
new Rosslyn suite where their firm, American Management Systems, would be born
was an office in name only. "There was nothing on my desk. No phones were
ringing. There was nothing in the in-box," Selin said.

   Flash forward nearly three decades. AMS, with its headquarters now in
Fairfax, has annual revenue of nearly $ 1 billion and employs 8,000 people
worldwide, selling complex software systems to banks, telephone companies,
government agencies and myriad other big customers.

   Although it has moved far from its origins, AMS is a child of the federal
government, part of a family tree of many hundreds of firms in the Washington
region that owe their success in some way to a critical capital connection. From
them sprang many other companies that had no ties to government, giving rise to
the Washington technology industry as it exists today.

   Many of the founding companies, such as AMS, were launched by people who as
bureaucrats or government scientists dreamed of striking out on their own. Many
more got their start -- or owe their continued existence -- to the $ 185 billion
in federal contracts that have flowed into the region since 1980. Whether it was
automating Social Security checks, improving the aim of nuclear missiles or
testing the effectiveness of new vaccines, there always was a high-tech
contractor ready to step up to the job.

   Other companies set up here to be close to the officials who regulated them:
MCI Communications Corp., the long-distance phone company that spawned an entire
competitive industry by helping break the AT&T Corp. monopoly, chose offices in
downtown Washington to be within walking distance of the Federal Communications
Commission.

   As the federal family of companies expanded, it assembled a remarkable pool
of talent, wealth and knowledge that it couldn't hang onto forever. Inevitably,
people left to set up firms that had a different view of the world -- they were
big on ideas for commercial markets and short on neckties.

   Look across the region's technology industry today and you'll find companies
selling investment newsletters online, writing complex software programs that
control factory production lines and developing satellite systems to beam
commercial radio down on the United States.

   Together, companies both new and old number close to 3,000 and employ as many
as 250,000 people, rivaling in size the region's federal work force.

   The federal money continues to flow: Later this week the Internal Revenue
Service is set to announce the winners of a $ 5 billion contract to modernize
its computer systems. But executives recognize that if the industry is to
continue expanding and providing jobs for future generations, its greatest
challenge is to show it can prosper in the far tougher, more volatile commercial
marketplace -- to stand outside its parent's long shadow.


   Jumping to the Private Sector


   Selin, one of former defense secretary Robert McNamara's brash "whiz kids,"
joined the Pentagon in 1965, rising to the post of assistant defense secretary
for systems analysis. When the Nixon administration took office in 1969 it was
clear that Selin's future was limited, so he decided to jump ship.

   At the time he and his colleagues in the Pentagon were using computers to
tackle big number-crunching problems -- the best way to leapfrog entire Army
divisions to Europe in a Cold War crisis, for example. That gave them a
first-hand look at what the latest generation of big computers made by
International Business Machines Corp. could do and the experience of pitching
state-of-the-art computer problem-solving to generals who often didn't
understand -- or believe in -- the technology.

   Surely, Selin and his team reasoned, they could create a business selling the
same types of services to corporate chief executives or department heads of
civilian agencies. People at the top of any big organization needed the
strategic information that computers could extract from reams of data that
otherwise would go unused, Selin said.

   Their first contract, as it turned out, was not with the federal government,
but with the Illinois state government's budget department, thanks to a personal
contact with a former White House aide. Soon they were doing business with their
old employer, the Pentagon, and other federal agencies, as well as with a timber
company and city governments. Contract followed contract.

   Selin and his partners came out of the defense world, but much of their work
was purely civilian. Another breed of firms came to the area to carry out the
secret research of the Cold War. They were peopled with some of the nation's
brightest, most ambitious scientists and technicians, eager to work on what
former Pentagon technocrat Craig Fields calls the "biggest, hardest problems."

   The newcomers included Bill Layson, a young nuclear physicist who was hired
in 1970 by a small defense contractor that was deep into the science of nuclear
warfare and bore the cryptic name Science Applications International Corp.
(SAIC).

   Layson's task was one of those grim, super-secret missions that defined the
deadly shadow-boxing between the world's superpowers in those days: how to guide
the second and third waves of a U.S. nuclear missile assault through the
superheated debris left by the bombs delivered in the first wave.

   "That had become my specialty," Layson said. "SAIC was searching for niches
where its ability to hire even one person could make a difference in the
business."

   There was no competition for the contract. The Pentagon hired the experts it
wanted. If work was performed well, one contract led to another, and then
another. Today, more than 9,000 employees work for SAIC in the Washington
region, many of them on top-secret projects, making up about one-third of a
company with worldwide revenue that topped $ 3 billion last year.

   Stories like Layson's were repeated over and over as Rosslyn, Crystal City,
Bethesda, Rockville and Landover filled up with small companies whose
executives, technicians and analysts fed at the government's generous trough.

   Rules of federal contracting also helped spawn the nation's largest
concentration of minority-owned technology firms. From 1980 to 1996, at least 20
percent of all the technology start-ups in Northern Virginia were
minority-owned, according to a technology industry survey.

   Over the years, recalled Norman R. Augustine, former chairman of defense
giant Lockheed Martin Corp., having your headquarters just across town from the
federal bureaucrats who doled out the contracts proved to be an essential
ingredient to getting those contracts.

   Augustine said he learned that lesson the hard way while working for LTV
Corp. in Dallas. He thought he had a contract locked up. "It struck me that
flying up to Washington to sign my name was a waste of time," he said. "But it
turned out something had fallen through. I vowed I'd never make that mistake
again."

   Lockheed Martin, with headquarters in Bethesda, is the region's largest
technology company and government contractor, with worldwide annual revenue
exceeding $ 28 billion. As it expanded through a series of mergers, its
executives three times faced the choice of whether to remain in the region or
move elsewhere, Augustine said. "In each case, we decided to stay," he said.
"The most important reason was to be near the customer."

   An estimated 9,000 federal contracting firms, including low-tech operations
such as janitorial services, now operate in the region. Last year a record $ 22
billion in federal purchase orders went to Washington area firms, one-tenth of
the entire $ 200 billion awarded to contractors throughout the country,
according to federal statistics.

   Although the procurement figures aren't precise, by some estimates nearly
half of the $ 20 billion that the federal government spends each year on
information technology purchases nationwide goes to Washington-based firms.

   "The new technologies funded by this federal spending have become the driving
force" of the region's economy, George Mason University analyst Stephen S.
Fuller said.


   'Law Firm With an Antenna on Top'


   Ever since the federal bureaucracy was built on a Potomac swamp, business
executives and lobbyists have migrated to Washington seeking a competitive
advantage from lawmakers and regulators. Few, if any, took on greater odds or
used Washington connections more successfully than MCI, which over a quarter of
a century grew from a gnat on the nose of AT&T to its most significant rival.

   To crack open AT&T's monopoly over long-distance and local phone services,
MCI waged and won dozens of battles before the FCC and in the federal courts.
Its chief executive, the late William McGowan, chose downtown Washington for
MCI's headquarters in 1968 because the company's attorneys could walk around the
block to the FCC to inspect AT&T's pricing plans, disclosed in its regulatory
filings.

   He liked to describe MCI as a "law firm with an antenna on top," and his top
lieutenants included such regulatory experts as Laurence E. Harris, who left MCI
in the mid-1980s to run an FCC bureau before returning, and Kenneth Cox, a
former FCC commissioner.

   It was Cox's idea that MCI begin sending documentation of its underdog
struggle with AT&T to the Justice Department's antitrust division. That helped
feed the Justice Department's federal antitrust suit that ultimately led to the
breakup of AT&T in 1984 and the opening of telecom markets.

   McGowan died in 1992. His legacy is not just MCI, which fetched $ 40 billion
earlier this year when it was bought by WorldCom Inc. It also is the dozens of
competitive telecom companies that opened up in the region -- Nextel Corp.,
Telegent, LCI, many of them headed by MCI veterans.

   Government also helped Washington emerge as the home base for the
communications satellite industry, which drew on Pentagon-developed technology.
In 1963, by act of Congress, Comsat Corp. was created to commercialize the
satellites and put its offices here. The following year the international
consortium Intelsat was formed to connect the entire globe using the satellites
and it also chose the region as its home.

   Comsat set up its research lab in Germantown, bringing both federal dollars
and new brainpower to the I-270 corridor. Fairchild Industries, another space
communications leader, itself close to both Goddard Space Flight Center and the
Atomic Energy Commission. "By the late Sixties and early Seventies, there was a
whole network of technology companies leveraging off NASA and pioneering in
satellite communications," said John F. Dealy, a Washington lawyer who was
president of Fairchild during that period.


   Health Through Biosciences


   In Maryland, meanwhile, another cluster of federal agencies was helping
create yet another local industry, biosciences. Its origin here is widely traced
to 1971, when President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act. It
earmarked $ 1.6 billion for curing the disease and knighted the National
Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute as the clearinghouses.

   The new industry, said William Haseltine, chief executive of Human Genome
Sciences Inc. in Rockville, "started with a series of service companies that
grew up to serve the needs of NIH. After Nixon declared war on cancer, Congress
gave the NCI and NIH an enormous amount of money in a very short period of time.
It just wasn't possible to absorb it all" internally.

   So quite a bit went out the door to contract labs and other firms that
sometimes wouldn't have existed without it. One of those first to provide
services to the newly enriched labs was Bethesda Research Labs, founded in 1976
by a New Jersey entrepreneur, Steve Turner. BRL sold products called
"restriction enzymes," which were transported in ice buckets, and other products
that allowed the manipulation of DNA. One of the company's best customers was
NIH.

   Bethesda Research Labs became one of the great tap roots of the Washington
bioscience family tree, leading to the creation of ever more companies.

   In 1983, for example, Turner left BRL and started Oncor, a biotech company
working on gene-based diagnostic products. Meanwhile, M. James Barrett, a
distinguished-looking businessman fond of dark suits, took charge of the BRL,
which despite all the money available, had run into financial troubles. He
merged it with a Cleveland company to create Life Technologies, which went
public in 1986.

   That same year Congress, concerned about global competition and finding ways
to get the country's many laboratory discoveries onto the market, passed the
Technology Transfer Act. It allowed private companies to potentially profit from
collaborative research with NIH and other federal agencies. Through contracts
known as Collaborative Research and Development Agreements, companies could
collaborate with governmental researchers to commercialize their findings.

   The new atmosphere of cooperation smoothed the way in 1987 for another child
of Bethesda Research: Barrett went off to start his own company, Genetic Therapy
Inc., which hinged on a partnership with W. French Anderson, a molecular
hematologist at the NIH.

   Deeda Blair, the director of a research foundation, recalls driving around
with Barrett one afternoon hunting for a suitable headquarters for Gene Therapy.
Barrett spied some space in a strip mall. Blair was mortified. "The first gene
therapy company can't be in a shopping center!" she said. It wound up in a
nondescript commercial building in Gaithersburg.

   The little group of companies in Maryland was now attracting the attention of
big venture capital companies from out of town. Gene Therapy was underwritten by
HealthCare Ventures of New Jersey. In time, HealthCare Ventures funded other
local enterprises here such as MedImmune Inc., Pharmavene, Molecular Oncology,
Human Genome Sciences and the nonprofit Institute for Genomic Research. The
I-270 corridor began to flower.

   In 1995 Barrett sold Genetic Therapy to Sandoz, now part of global
pharmaceutical company Novartis, for $ 300 million. Last year, with mounds of
money from Health Care Ventures and other venture capital firms, he started
Sensors for Medicine and Science, a Germantown company that hopes to make a
small blood-sugar monitoring device to be implanted in diabetics.

   "I don't like large companies," he said. So he keeps creating small ones.


   A 'Russian-Proof' Network


   Circa 1963, a clutch of computer eggheads from federal agencies and
universities gathered in grubby rooms deep inside the Pentagon to develop a
"Russian-proof" way to dispatch military commands across the country over a
computer network. No one had thought up the name at the time, but they were
creating the Internet. The first network began operating in 1969. Three years
later it got a full baptism at the first International Conference on Computer
Communications, held at the Washington Hilton Hotel. As more than 1,000 people
looked on, a network of 40 widely dispersed computers came to life, exchanging
messages and files in a wink of the eye.

   The Internet was based on a concept called "packet switching" -- the breaking
up of messages into blocks or packets, which were addressed and dispatched
separately over a grid of transmission lines. At the destination, the packet
would be reassembled in correct order.

   With many different routes that a message could take to reach a destination,
this system helped make the system "Russian-proof" -- if one line was broken in
wartime, another still would be operating. But it had important commercial
advantages too -- it was inherently cheaper than opening a "dedicated" circuit
between point A and B.

   In 1985 the of the Internet was turned over to the National Science
Foundation in the District and the NSF, under Director Erich Bloch and Stephen
Wolff, director of network communications, championed the idea of a "network of
networks" open to all, not just the government agencies, labs and contractors
that were using it at the time.

   Soon, as entrepreneurs began realizing the money-making potential of the
network, commercial spinoffs appeared, many of them in the Washington area: One
of the first was Performance Systems International Inc., which founder Bill
Schrader moved from New York to Reston in 1989.

   PSI, which offered Internet connections to business and individual customers,
rode the Internet's soaring growth in the 1990s, issuing stock to the public in
1995. In one stroke PSI found itself with an estimated 25 millionaires among its
525-employee work force.

   Over time other Internet firms sprang up here -- UUNet Technologies Inc.,
Digex Inc., Erols Inc. And America Online Corp., which began as a private online
system not linked to the Internet, came to recognize that the global network was
the future and patched in its closed community of subscribers. AOL, operating
from a campus near Washington Dulles International Airport, is today far and
away the largest online company in the country, with close to 14 million
subscribers.

   Until the Internet's expansion in the mid-1990s, the federal government's
parental influence on the Washington region's technology community had been
considered a mixed blessing, according to executives like Selin. While the
taxpayer money poured in, it often went toward specialized government needs that
did not easily translate to commercial markets.

   It took many years, but the industry has finally moved beyond specialized
contracting and has an opportunity to take its products and services far beyond
the Capital Beltway, Selin said. "Maybe the contracting phase was a dead-end,
but the Internet and biotechnology areas are wonderfully fascinating."

   But as the region's status as a technology center in its own right expands,
he said, the successful offspring should remember their federal parent: "I
wouldn't say it could happen nowhere else but here, but the Washington
connection was key."



   Playing a Major Role


   Milestones of the Technological Age were given a big boost by the federal
government.

   1957: Sputnik launched, creating new interest in government technology.

   1964: Vietnam War heats up, generating military research involving
technology.

   1963: Comsat founded.

   1968: MCI Communications founded.

   1959: Goddard Space Flight Center opens.

   1969: Internet first operates.

   1970: American Management Systems founded to provide computer services.

   1971: National Cancer Act passes, funding cancer research.

   Early 1980s: Reagan era defense buildup begins.

   1982: Orbital Sciences Corp. founded to develop space systems.

   1984: Breakup of AT&T opens up telecommunications markets.

   1985: American Online founded, as Quantum.

   1989: PSI Net moves to Reston from New York.

   1992: Human Genome Sciences Inc. founded.

   1992: Network Solutions takes over assigning of Internet addresses from
government.



   About This Series


   SUNDAY


   A Day in Washington's New Economy


   A chronicle of a day in the region's burgeoning technology business
illustrates how the local economy is evolving from dependence on the federal
government to global leadership in the high-tech sector.



   TODAY

   How the Region Embraced Innovation

   It wasn't easy to leave their government jobs, but that's what many of the
region's pioneering entrepreneurs did, laying the groundwork for other
technology businesses.



   TUESDAY

   Washington's Investing Angels

   Having earned millions of dollars from their own companies, several
technology heavyweights are now providing seed money to eager CEO-hopefuls.

   Also Today

   WASHINGTON BUSINESS

   They're considered volatile, but stocks of local high-technology companies
replaced the region's "blue chips" as the best bets for investors this year.

   Coming Thursday

   BUSINESS SECTION

   TechThursday debuts in an expanded Business section that once a week will
highlight coverage of the fast-growing technology sector.  Defensive Position:
The Pentagon and its military needs were key factors in the sustained growth of
the local technology industry. Close to the Action: MCI's William McGowan chose
Washington for his company's home. Looking Outward: Ivan Selin knew the profit
potential of his Pentagon skills. Birth of an Industry: William Haseltine
credits NIH with creating the biotech industry.


GRAPHIC: Illustration; Photo, susan biddle; Photo, ray lustig

LOAD-DATE: December 07, 1998


                             1727 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 December 6, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6;  Page 56;  Column 1;  Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7953 words

HEADLINE: Fighting for Jacob

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip;   Michael Winerip is a staff writer for the
magazine.

BODY:

   Jordana and Richard Sontag were speeding toward Yale University, angry,
desperate, ready to unleash their secret weapon, which they had carefully loaded
into the back of their Grand Cherokee. For a year, they had done everything in
their power to save their dying baby boy, Jacob. The well-to-do young couple and
relatives had donated more than $200,000 to Yale to underwrite experimental
gene-therapy research aimed at curing the rare genetic disease that plagued
Jacob. They had helped pay to bring two leading researchers from the other side
of the world to Yale and to transport from a lab in Germany the precious
concoction of healthy genes that might save their son and a dozen other dying
children with Canavan disease. They had hired lawyers and enlisted United States
Senators to lobby the medical oversight committees for approval of the
experimental procedure.

   And then they waited. Week after week, Yale officials assured them that the
medical school's review committees and the governmental agencies would soon take
action. But spring had given way to summer, and summer to fall, and still
nothing. Jacob's adorable blond head had grown too heavy for him to hold up, and
he had little control of his limbs, which hung at his sides, making him floppy
like a rag doll.

    In hopes of speeding the review, Jordana had assembled two notebooks full of
records documenting the complete medical history of 1 1/2-year-old Jacob Ross
Sontag, starting with the first sonogram. The names of all those committees and
agencies that had to approve the experimental treatment made her head throb and
at night turned her dreams dark and anxious: the Human Investigation Committee
and Biological Safety Committee at Yale; the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee
at the National Institutes of Health; a staff review at the Food and Drug
Administration. All had to say "yes" before the children could be treated. But
as the Sontags knew, H.I.C. wouldn't act until B.S.C. did; B.S.C. preferred
R.A.C. to give an expedited approval first; and R.A.C. was waiting until H.I.C.
ruled. And how did the Sontags explain that to friends who asked, "How's it
going?"

   "We plan to see anyone who will see us," said Richard on the drive to Yale.
"We'll look into offices, the cafeteria -- we'll find them!" That fall day in
1997, as they hurried through the lobby of Yale-New Haven Hospital wheeling the
secret weapon, they couldn't believe their luck. There was Dr. Margretta
Seashore! The enemy! To the Sontags, Dr. Seashore epitomized all the
bureaucratic delays that were killing them. She is an internationally known
genetics professor, appointed by Yale to shepherd the experimental procedure
through the review process. At 59, Seashore is careful, thorough, academic --
precisely the type of person who was driving the Sontags crazy. Seashore was a
generation older than the bold team of junior Yale researchers who had actually
developed the new gene therapy, tested it on 300 rats, 4 monkeys and 2 children
in New Zealand and pronounced it ready to go for its first trial in the United
States.

   As far as the Sontags were concerned, Seashore represented the establishment,
when they needed a firebrand to shake up Yale.

   Seashore was waiting in the lobby to meet a group of medical students for a
tutorial and was surprised to see the Sontags. She tried to make small talk, but
they would not be distracted. "I'm sorry I can't sympathize," said Jordana.
"We're living with a dying child the past 18 months."

   Richard unfastened the secret weapon and began yelling. "You look at him!" he
screamed, lifting Jacob out of the stroller and pushing him at Seashore. "You
tell him why this protocol is delayed while he's dying!" The father was speaking
so loud, people in the lobby were staring. Seashore noticed that her four
medical students had arrived and appeared to be in shock.

   "How could you prevent our child from treatment?" Richard yelled. By then,
Richard was crying, Jordana was crying, Jacob was howling and Seashore looked
ready to burst into tears.

   "I do understand your desperation," Seashore said. "You have to understand,
the biosafety committee is trying to be safe." She suggested that they consult
the medical-school dean about the delays. "I'm under tremendous pressure the
past months, overseeing this protocol."

   "That's a luxury compared to being parents of a terminally ill child," said
Jordana.

   Seashore's hands were trembling. She warned she'd take herself off the
protocol if this pressure continued: "If I do, this trial is dead."

   "You look at my son dying," Richard screamed. "Tell it to him!"

   Seashore would later call that Sept. 24, 1997, showdown a watershed. "I was
shocked at their behavior in public," she said. "What that said was: We have
desperate people here; they're going to blow the place up; we have to make a
decision." After the Sontags' visit, the assistant to the medical-school dean
spoke to members of the Yale biosafety committee and told them that it was time
to decide -- yes or no-- but soon. The next week, the committee approved the
therapy, and in the following months the other committees did, too. The Sontags'
desperate plan had worked. On Jan. 2, 1998, Jacob Sontag was scheduled for
surgery at Yale, the first time doctors in this country planned to treat a
genetic disease by shooting a syringe full of healthy genes directly into the
brain.

   The four medical students who witnessed that confrontation have told Seashore
it's the best clinical lesson they've had at Yale, and indeed, many of the
forces shaping medical practice and research converged that day in the lobby to
detonate the nasty explosion. For the Sontags, the experimental therapy was the
sole hope they had to reverse the degeneration of their only child, precious
Jacob, suffering from a rare disease that eventually leads to paralysis,
blindness, severe retardation and death, typically between ages 5 and 10. To the
Sontags, gene therapy -- introducing healthy genetic material into
malfunctioning cells so that they can produce a missing enzyme Jacob's body
needs -- was brilliant, and they knew from news articles that the approach was
being used in hundreds of trials on cancer, cystic fibrosis and heart disease.

   In the Sontags' corner were two junior Yale researchers, Dr. Matthew During,
41, and Paola Leone, 34, a neurobiologist. Since 1995, when parents of another
dying child had begged During and Leone to apply their skills to Canavan, the
two had moved at a breakneck pace. The Sontags understood these researchers had
their own reasons -- there will be great rewards for the scientist who figures
out how to deliver large amounts of healthy genetic material to the right cells.
For During and Leone, Canavan could be the template for other genetic therapies,
revolutionizing medicine; the dying children promised to be the perfect human
subjects. As for the parents, they just thanked God that anyone would take on
such a rare "orphan" disease.

   On the other side were Seashore and three dozen colleagues on Yale's
oversight committees, many of them fearful that in this era of deregulation
safety standards are being lowered, allowing treatments like the fen-phen diet
drugs to reach the public without adequate testing. "The heart of the question,"
Seashore said, "is when is it time for something in a scientific lab to be made
available to people?" Seashore had seen the career of one of her colleagues, the
geneticist Dr. Reuben Matalon, upended by moving too quickly from the test tube
to humans. In the early 1990's, Matalon thought he had developed a pregnancy
screening test for Canavan. And then, to his horror, four pregnant women who had
tested negative gave birth to babies with the disease. "I wasn't going to let
anything like that happen to me," Seashore said.

   I first met Jordana and Richard Sontag in May 1997. Richard's sister, Deborah
Sontag, is a friend and colleague (the Jerusalem bureau chief of The Times) and
had told me of her younger brother's quest. She was skeptical, but also in awe
of how determined her brother and sister-in-law were to find a cure and how open
they were about Jacob. A few months before, in February 1997, to celebrate
Jacob's first birthday, Richard and Jordana had rented a restaurant banquet
room, hired a Musical Munchkin and invited 50 friends and relatives to the
party.

   Until recently, there was no hope for a child with Canavan, which is most
prevalent among Ashkenazi Jews like the Sontags -- affecting 1 in 6,000 Jewish
infants. Both parents must be carriers for the disease to manifest in the
offspring. Children have a defective gene that can't produce a key enzyme needed
to break down an acid in the brain known as NAA. Scientists hypothesize that a
surplus of NAA develops, which in turn interferes with the formation of myelin,
the white coating that covers nerve cells. Without myelin, the brain's nerve
cells can't relay messages to the body, eroding motor control to the point of
paralysis. Autopsies reveal spongy brains full of tiny holes.

   At birth, the baby appears normal. But by 3 months, parents notice a lack of
responsiveness. Misdiagnosis is common. Jacob was first thought to have
developmental and vision problems. At 4 months, he was fitted for glasses. At 5
months, a specialist said it was Leigh's disease. By the time Canavan was
identified, Jacob was 7 months old.

   Most families had only bleak things to tell the Sontags. They met parents who
medicated their children around the clock, who felt any physical therapy was a
waste. A mother from Philadelphia said: "Don't get him glasses. It won't matter
to him, and you don't want people staring." There were parents who confided that
they quietly let the children die instead of rushing them to a hospital during a
seizure. "The best thing you can do," they said, "is have another child who is
healthy." To Jordana and Richard, this was Canavan's defeated old guard
speaking.

   The couple was not used to failure. In 1992, when Richard was 30, he bought
out a two-man firm that produced battery-heated socks and in five years built it
into Nordic Gear, a multimillion-dollar outdoor accessory company with three
factories and 350 employees. At an age when many are still deciding what to be,
Richard was flying to the Orient first class on business and arranging meetings
with his bankers. For her part, Jordana was a creative public-relations
executive, savvy enough to get one of Richard's items featured on an Oprah
Winfrey pre-Christmas show highlighting great gift ideas.

   In the spring of 1997, in the midst of their quest for treatment, they bought
a seven-bedroom, seven-bathroom home with a pool on 1.75 acres in a wealthy
Westchester County suburb. That enormous house made Jordana uneasy, but Richard
saw it as a testament to his business success.

   They were determined to treat their son as normally as possible. When I first
met Jacob, at 15 months, if his head fell onto his chest, Richard would say:
"Pull up your head Jacob. Come on Boo." And slowly, Jacob did. "Say hi," Richard
coached, and light came into Jacob's eyes, a smile appeared, his mouth opened
and a tiny "Hi" came out. Then Richard would kiss him all over, turn him upside
down and make gassy noises against his neck while Jacob beamed.

   "Other Canavan families are amazed by Jacob," said Jordana. "They've never
seen a Canavan child so advanced." The Sontags made sure Jacob had extensive
weekly therapy -- physical, speech, occupational -- all publicly financed as
part of a Federal early-intervention program for disabled preschoolers. They
constantly read to him. On a trip to Philadelphia, Jordana sat in the back seat
and read and sang the entire two hours while Jacob was mum, staring through his
blue-rimmed glasses: "Is Clifford in his doghouse? Is that where Clifford is?
Little Man, how come you're so smart?"

   They were delighted he was already 25 pounds, while a 7-year-old Canavan girl
they'd met, Morgan Gelblum, weighed just 30. Instead of giving him a mushy diet
-- he had limited chewing control -- they fed him Cheerios, waffles, chicken
soup with matzoh balls. Canavan children tend to have trouble sleeping --
imagine not being able to shift your body for 10 or 12 hours -- and most parents
sedate them. "They put them to sleep with one pill and wake them with uppers,"
said Richard. If Jacob cried, they checked on him, but let him cry himself to
sleep.

   Strangers saw Jacob's stylish glasses and his polo shirts and commented on
how much he looked like the boy, Ray, in the film "Jerry Maguire." "People don't
realize he's handicapped," said Jordana. But the Sontags were no fools. Jordana
was constantly downloading articles, and one described how much of the brain's
development is completed by age 2. "Every month he doesn't have the surgery,
he's losing," she said. "At 6 months, he wasn't far behind other children. Now
at 15 months, he should be walking, and the distance from where he should be and
where he is gets larger. He'll have to do so much more to catch up after the
surgery." While the Canavan literature lists retardation as a symptom, it is not
clear at what age mental deterioration becomes irreversible. Jordana and Richard
were convinced there was a bright little boy trapped in that body, and they
based that on the light in his eyes and his beautiful smile. They were in a race
against time to reach that trapped person before he disappeared forever.

   They were not the first. the karlins of New Fairfield, Conn., were. In 1994,
Canavan was diagnosed in Lindsay Karlin. Her father, Roger, an internist, and
mother, Helene, a psychologist, began a frantic hunt for scientists doing gene
therapy and found During and Leone nearby at Yale. At the time, the researchers
were using Parkinson's disease to investigate ways to deliver genes into brain
cells of rats. They were testing a nonharmful virus that could be loaded with
replacement genes and would then transport those genes through the membranes of
brain cells.

   The Karlins brought Lindsay to meet During and Leone. After several visits,
the researchers agreed to focus on Canavan. The disease offered an objective
measure of gene therapy's effectiveness. If, after gene injection, a brain scan
showed the children's NAA decreased and their myelin increased, it would be
evidence that the implanted genes had done the job. There were human reasons,
too, in the Karlins' favor. Like the Sontags, they were educated people who
understood the ethics of offering up their daughter and promised to be able
fund-raisers.

   At that time, During, a native New Zealander, was being wooed to return to
Auckland. While scores of labs in the United States were doing gene therapy, in
New Zealand he would be first. He saw a chance to do more, faster, with greater
resources. Indeed, shortly after returning to New Zealand, the pioneer
geneticist was fielding phone calls from reporters. On March 6, 1996, he oversaw
his first human gene trial -- on Lindsay Karlin and on a second American child,
Alyssa Mushin.

   Though results were mixed, the Karlins were excited. Within weeks, they say,
their daughter seemed to see more and do a better job holding up her head. Brain
scans seemed to indicate a decrease in her NAA and increase in her myelin
(although not for the other child). The Karlins were now anxious to have their
daughter treated again and agreed with During that they should inject twice as
much genetic material.

   That fall of 1996, the Sontags were just beginning to confront Jacob's
illness when they heard of the New Zealand experiment. In their usual
take-charge style, Jordana and Richard were soon coordinating the next round of
injections in New Zealand, on eight more children, including Jacob. To insure
that every family could make the trip, the Sontags offered to underwrite any
expenses the others could not afford. When New Zealand officials sent
questionnaires asking parents if they understood the risks, Richard faxed sample
answers to each family, urging them to slightly change the wording to the
responses. The experiment was described as testing only the safety of gene
injection: "The best we can hope for is that the procedure is safe; anything
over and above that will be a bonus." In Richard's advisory to parents he
warned, "Do not say that you expect the gene therapy to save your child's life,"
although that was what most hoped. Three times the Sontags had plane tickets for
New Zealand, and three times they canceled as committees there raised
objections. A backlash was setting in. Articles had appeared in Science and
Lancet, and letters were sent to Washington regulators questioning whether
During was using a distant country to circumvent United States oversight.

   Night after night, Richard and Jordana phoned and E-mailed New Zealand. But
the treatment was slipping away. By June, that country's officials were accusing
During of pushing through the first trial without sufficient public debate,
while he questioned their ethics. Sitting on this side of the world, Richard
took the long view: "They don't give a damn about our kids. These aren't New
Zealand kids dying."

   The day they got the word, Richard and Jordana took Jacob to the playground.
They wanted to be alone. Richard held Jacob in his lap as they went down slides.
A woman watching asked, "Is he getting physical therapy?" She wasn't being
intrusive; she simply wanted to be sure they knew it could help. "Some people
try to ignore it," said the woman.

   Later, Richard said, "She was nice."

   "Yeah," said Jordana.

   "That's the first time a stranger realized," said Richard. Jordana nodded.

   They started over again in this country. Richard flew to Washington with
Roger Karlin to meet with lawyers about how to best pressure officials at Yale
and the National Institutes of Health. The Institutes' next quarterly review was
in mid-September; the Yale committees would have to act by late August for the
protocol to be considered at that mid-September Federal review. "We don't know
if we should get politicians involved or give Yale lots of money or go to the
press," said Karlin.

   "That could backfire," said Barbara Mishkin, an attorney at the firm Hogan &
Hartson who specializes in human experimentation. "You could just get the
committee upset."

   Bob Brady, another attorney, said: "We have to lower the decibel level, focus
on the science. Inadvertently, the protocol has become notorious, both here and
in New Zealand."

   Richard favored being aggressive: "What we tried to do is call Yale's
president and thank him for letting us deposit $250,000 in the Canavan research
account and say to him, 'Who do we contact about giving more?"'

   Mishkin replied: "The research budget at Yale is multimillions. To influence
them, you'll need much more than a couple hundred thousand."

   "You want us to tone it down," said Richard. "We want to bring it up." After
two hours, he and Karlin rose to leave. Karlin pulled out a photo to show the
lawyers. "My daughter, Lindsay," he said. Richard pulled Jacob from his wallet.
"The consequences if this is postponed?" Brady asked.

   "They may go blind, become vegetables, die," Karlin said.

   Jordana had stopped working and was watching Jacob like a hawk for signs of
changes. Was she the only one who could feel time slipping away? "He'll get to
the point of no return," she said. "The gene therapy might prolong his life, but
won't help him."

   Sunday morning, July 20, Richard got him out of bed. Jacob looked pale and
unhappy. "A cranky baby here," Richard announced and brought him downstairs.
Jordana rubbed his arms, but couldn't get a smile. His lips were chalky white.
He began making jerky motions; she tried to bend his legs, couldn't, then
noticed his eyes rolling. "He's seizuring!" she screamed.

   Doctors hospitalized Jacob for several days, but couldn't find a cause for
his 103-degree fever. Not even Jordana could coax a smile from him. A dizzying
parade of specialists visited. At one point, when Jordana asked a doctor a
question, Richard started to answer, but she cut him off.

   "You always do that," she said to Richard. "You jump in and answer my
questions. I have important questions I don't get to ask."

   "Write them down," Richard said.

   "I don't have to write them down!" said Jordana. "I just don't want my son
being dead because some doctor doesn't know how to treat a child with Canavan."
Doctors said there should be no damage from the seizure, but the Sontags
worried. Who was Jacob? A little boy with light in his eyes and a delicious
smile, who liked best to be rocked in his mother's arms. There was no sign of
that Jacob. Was he still in there?

   For weeks they weren't sure. He was crankier, often seemed in pain. For the
first time, he was having trouble sleeping, and they argued over how to handle
it. When his crying persisted one night, Jordana picked him up. "Why'd you bring
him out here?" said Richard. "Of course he's sweating when he's crying; he's
crying himself to sleep. What's wrong? He's fine. Put him back."

   He was having trouble lifting his head, too. On Aug. 15, Jordana said:
"Something's definitely not the same. I can't pinpoint it yet. Richard thinks
one of his eyes is starting to turn; the muscle has weakened. None of the
therapists noticed anything, but it seems he used to see me sooner when I came
into a room. If he was on the couch and I walked from the kitchen to the front
door, he'd see me, want me and cry."

   Jordana knew the optical nerve can degenerate without myelin and on Aug. 20
took Jacob for a checkup. The ophthalmologist found significant deterioration
and strengthened Jacob's glasses. This scared her. "I can't imagine what it
would be like if he couldn't see my face or Richard's," she said. "If something
started to go wrong with his eyes -- it's unacceptable to me."

   Jordana got United States Senators involved. One Canavan child was from South
Dakota, and an aide to that state's senior Senator, Tom Daschle, was
particularly aggressive about pressing Yale. Still, many at Yale did not feel
the same urgency. At a Sept. 2 biosafety meeting, members said there were still
too many questions and postponed a decision. The earliest Federal action would
now be the December quarterly meeting. Jacob would be nearly 2.

   "Jordana's going to explode," said Richard. "She's holding everything in.
She's talking about chaining herself to the White House fence."

   Little things were destroying her: a 2-year-old niece asking when Jacob would
stop being a baby. Even his pockets depressed her. "A little boy his age starts
enjoying his pockets," she said, "putting different things in there, and he
doesn't even know they are there." Richard would come home from work and there
was nothing in the refrigerator. She had stopped grocery shopping. "It made me
crazy," said Richard. "I'd say, 'Jordana what's going on -- no food in the
house?' She'd say to Jacob, 'Your Daddy thinks I'm crazy."'

   She had tried to explain how difficult it was taking Jacob shopping, but
Richard always had an answer: "Put him in the baby seat. What's the problem?"
She didn't tell Richard, but she couldn't do that to Jacob, a 1 1/2-year-old
sitting flopped in an infant seat. "It's not that I care what people think," she
said. "It's making Jacob a spectacle when I'm shopping."

   Jacob would wake at 4 A.M., they'd struggle to get him to sleep and then were
up until morning, arguing. They began seeing a marriage counselor. Jordana
complained Richard bullied her; Richard complained Jordana was running from
life.

   In mid-September, she asked for a divorce. Richard wanted to know if there
was someone else. Jordana said there was not a soul -- that was the problem. She
was finding she couldn't talk to anyone about Jacob. "Every day there's some
stupid new development, we're so immersed," she said. "It's so lonely. Even when
Richard and I talk, we have totally different views." They disagreed about
things as basic as the gene therapy. Richard was hardheaded: he expected the
small improvements Lindsay Karlin's parents had reported, but felt a cure was
years away. "I'm not in la-la land on this," he said.

   Jordana thought Jacob would thrive, because he'd been an advanced Canavan
child and would get twice the dose of genes that the first two girls received in
New Zealand. "At some point, not right after, I see him lifting his head," she
said. "Maybe he'll say the words he knows now, loud and clear.

   "What I envision is this little boy coming out of his shell -- 'I'm here! Hi!
Here I am!' I want him to be set free in a way. I hope he'll walk. He has the
desire to walk. I put him down, he tightens his leg. You know, I'll be grateful
if he can just sit up, play on his own, grab things.

   "If he could just roll over. I put him to bed at night on his belly. In the
morning, I come in, he's in the same position. I think about how nice it would
be for him, if he could roll over and stretch -- so there are my hopes."

   Knowing those hopes, it was easier to understand why each new delay seemed
the cruelest. On Sept. 18, Yale's biosafety committee again met without
deciding. On Sept. 19, the Sontags were invited to attend a memorial service at
the Jewish Guild for the Blind in Manhattan for 7-year-old, 30-pound Morgan
Gelblum, who died over the summer. On Sept. 24, Jordana told Richard that
whether or not he came, she and Jacob were going to Yale to confront Seashore
and anyone else she could find. Richard would later say, "I was on the fence
about going," but he went, as much to save his marriage as his son.

   Seashore didn't tell the Sontags, but she, too, thought Yale's biosafety
committee was stalling, afraid to make the leap. However, she also saw a need
for caution. "If you just tell people we're putting foreign DNA into the brains
of small children, jaws drop," she said.

   There were other reasons members did not feel an urgency: many doubted it
would work. While gene therapy had captured the imagination of the public and
media (most hometown newspapers had done a hopeful feature on their local
Canavan child), the scientific community was skeptical. An article in Nature
that fall of '97 reviewed all gene protocols to date, including treatments for
cancers, heart disease and immunodeficiencies and put it bluntly: "Although more
than 200 clinical trials are currently under way worldwide with hundreds of
patients enrolled, there is still no single outcome that we can point to as a
success."

   It wasn't a question of whether they could deliver genes to the cells. They
could. It was how many and how long they'd work. Matthew During estimated that
the new genes would reach 10 million of the 100 billion brain cells, or 1 in
10,000. Delivery was primitive: They shot the genetic fluid into a liquid cavity
of the brain known as the ventricle and hoped it would be absorbed by adjoining
brain cells. This was like pouring it into a river and seeing how much was
absorbed by the surrounding land; you'd find a lot in the riverbed, some along
the banks, but not much inland. The low "hit" rate was the major misgiving
voiced by committee members. Even if inserting the genes proved benign, the
surgery had a risk. Implanting the plastic reservoir in the brain to pump genes
into the ventricle carried a 5 percent risk of serious infection, possibly
death. Put another way: for the 16 children waiting, there was a 1-in-20 chance
of a life-threatening crisis.

   Complicating matters was During's status. He was a hero to parents, but
because the protocol had bounced from Yale to New Zealand and back and was
publicly criticized, some at Yale regarded him as a cowboy. Committee members
questioned how successful the procedure really was in New Zealand. While both
girls had a temporary decrease in NAA, the more important indicator, myelin
growth, was less clear-cut. To ensure uniformity, the committees decided that
all M.R.I.'s would be done in one place, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

   With During still in New Zealand, Yale had taken the unusual step of asking
Seashore to shepherd the protocol, though she was not involved in the research.
"Acrimonious things were said about Matt During that weren't fair," she said.
"But I would not let that happen to me. If I had to be the bad guy to parents,
I'd be the bad guy."

   Seashore remembered too well what had happened to her longtime friend and
colleague, Dr. Reuben Matalon. At Miami Children's Hospital in the 1980's,
Matalon made the key breakthroughs in Canavan research, including identifying
the mutation responsible for the disease. Canavan parents considered him a
godsend. In 1990, he thought he had another score, a Canavan screening for
pregnant women. What happened next has never been reported in the media, but it
stunned geneticists who pieced the facts together. In a 1992 issue of the
Journal of Inherited Metabolic Diseases, Matalon published a paper detailing how
his test on pregnant women had correctly predicted whether a baby would be born
with Canavan 13 of 13 times. His conclusion: "It is possible to determine
Canavan disease prenatally." But then, in a last-minute postscript, came the
shocker: "Note Added in Proof: Subsequent to the submission of this manuscript,
we determined that one of the pregnancies predicted to be normal resulted in an
affected baby."

   That affected baby was Molly Green, born June 18, 1991, in Arlington, Va.
Molly's parents, David, a lawyer, and Wendy, a psychologist, had already buried
one Canavan child, Eli, in 1990. After hearing of Matalon's new test, Wendy got
pregnant again. "He told us it was experimental," said David, "but there was
nothing like an informed consent procedure or peer review. We were desperate to
have a child. Our attitude was, sounds good enough to me." The pregnant Wendy
sent a fluid sample to Matalon. "We were informed the results were sparkling,"
said David. "We were having a healthy baby."

   Molly seemed perfect at birth and was even chosen as the poster baby for the
National Tay-Sachs and Allied Diseases Association, which was undertaking its
annual fund-raiser. Three months later, after Molly had gone floppy and her
parents knew the truth, one of the first calls the father made was to the
foundation. "Rip up all those postcards of Molly," he said. "She has it." She
died March 1, 1992. Three more women with sparkling screenings gave birth to
Canavan babies, and two of those sued and later settled. "Reuben made a
mistake," Seashore said, "but he was pressed very hard by the families to bring
something into clinical service before it was ready."

   In the end, the Canavan protocol was approved at Yale for very human reasons.
The children were as disabled as any on the planet, and they probably would not
be harmed and might benefit, or at least provide insight for researchers. I
asked Dr. Charles Duncan, one of the nation's pre-eminent pediatric
neurosurgeons and the man slated to operate on Jacob, "Would you do it if it
were your child?" "Oh yes," he said. "I wouldn't be doing the surgery if I
didn't think so."

   There was more good news. The National Institutes of Health had recently made
a policy change: under streamlined guidelines, Yale's approval meant the Federal
committee did not have to give its go-ahead.

   Seashore, however, insisted that the protocol go for that Federal review
anyway. "I don't want to be the first protocol that doesn't," she said. Leone,
who had worked so closely with the parents, fought her. "They saw me as an
obstacle," Seashore conceded. "I saw them as loud. It was only a couple more
weeks."

   That November, the Sontags hired divorce lawyers and put the house up for
sale. The previous spring it had felt to Richard like a symbol of his power, but
now, as winter neared, he seemed to have lost control of things that mattered,
and the big house embarrassed him. Many rooms were still unfurnished.

   Just before Thanksgiving, Jacob had a brain scan scheduled in Philadelphia to
establish a baseline for myelin before gene therapy. Richard and Jordana took
separate cars -- agreeing to meet there. On the George Washington Bridge,
Richard spotted Jordana and Jacob and waved. He knew she'd be nervous about
driving alone, and sure enough, she pulled behind him. As they caravaned south
on the New Jersey Turnpike, he picked up his car phone and dialed her in the
Cherokee. They talked for 20 minutes, their first conversation in weeks.

   Trying to get the IV in for the anesthetic was always the worst moment of an
M.R.I. Jacob's arms were flaccid and nurses had trouble pricking a vein. He
cried as Richard and Jordana held him. Soon they were sobbing, too, their tears
falling together on their son. The nurse tried to comfort them, saying that the
IV really didn't hurt Jacob much, but that was not why the Sontags were crying.

   That night, they left Jacob with their sitter and took a hotel room.

   By Dec. 18, the Federal agencies had given their approval. Jacob's therapists
prepared evaluations, to measure changes that might come later. Vivian Kahn
Adler, the speech therapist, noted deterioration in recent months. When she
started, "he used at least five different sounds -- 'hi,' 'more,' 'ma.' At that
age it was very encouraging; he was a baby. Now he's not using many." She didn't
know why Jacob had lost speech. It could be physical -- his breath support had
weakened. Or maybe, she said, cognitive. She was trying to get him to
communicate by gazing at the food he wanted on his tray. During her Dec. 18
lesson, he sneezed and his head fell on his chest; he couldn't lift it. His eyes
were crossed now, too. "A lot of kids you feel are stuck at the 3- to 6-month
level," Adler said. "With Jacob, I feel there's a bright little kid in there.
Sometimes he can wave. It'll take a while. If you don't have patience, you'll
miss that wave."

   The researchers decided the Sontags or Karlins would go first. They'd worked
the hardest and raised the most money. At a diner, they flipped a coin. Jacob
won. Jordana felt like a pioneer. She was hearing from families from around the
world. "I feel great," she said, "like we've spared them the pain of all the
fighting we've been through. I saw a video this family in Canada sent of their
baby -- his name's Jacob, too. He's 5 months, lifting his head, looking around.
Can you imagine what this could do for him?"

   Surgery was to be done in two phases. On Friday, Jan. 2, at 8 A.M., Duncan
used an air drill to cut a 9-millimeter hole in Jacob's skull. A tube was
lowered into the ventricle; then a plastic, egg-shaped reservoir was attached to
the tube and imbedded below the scalp, making a bump over Jacob's forehead. The
reservoir would remain to facilitate future injections. This took less than an
hour. Then Jacob was to be observed that weekend for signs of infection, and on
Monday the genes would be implanted.

   It was not to be. Sunday night he had a 103-degree fever, and Richard slammed
the nearest table. "Twelve hours away!" he said. Duncan came to the hospital
past midnight to get a sample of Jacob's brain fluid to test for infection.
While Richard held his son, a young doctor assisting Duncan put the syringe into
the reservoir to withdraw a specimen. Jacob's brain fluid came rushing out,
splashing on the floor. Richard's eyes widened; brain surgery wasn't like he'd
envisioned. Duncan felt Jacob just had the flu, but didn't want to take chances.
He said he'd have to consult Seashore before deciding when to proceed.

   "If Dr. Seashore makes the call," Richard moaned, "we'll be waiting another
year." At 10 the next morning, Leone wheeled in a cart with a black plastic
container. Richard could not stop staring. The genes they had been waiting so
long for, the genes that could change their son's life, had arrived, in an ice
bucket that looked borrowed from a Motel 6.

   For days, Jacob was too sick with flu for the injection. On Jan. 9 at 6 A.M.,
Jordana was watching him sleep when she noticed his pinkie finger tremble, then
his arms, then the whole body. His eyes opened wide and she thought he was
dying. The nurses could not stop the seizure and moved him to intensive care.
Would there be anything left of him to save?

   Not until Jan. 22 was he strong enough. The actual procedure was so simple
that it was done in an examination room. Jacob was laid on his stomach,
screaming, Richard and Jordana holding him down. Duncan took a syringe and
inserted it into a pin in Jacob's scalp that looked like the needle used to blow
up a football. With his left hand he injected the syringe's fluid and with his
right thumb he pumped the implanted reservoir 16 times. After 14 months, it was
over in three minutes. The new genes were floating down the river Jacob.

   "Richard and I have this joke," Jordana said. "Jacob will sit up and say, 'I
don't know about this gene therapy."' Jordana's mother urged, "Keep your camera
out for when he lifts his head." They upped physical therapy to five days a week
to capitalize on any improvement and thought they saw a million little things.
"I was feeding him," said Jordana. "He put his hand on the spoon three or four
times. He's done that before, but it was like right on my hand." When Richard
held him, Jacob seemed to lift his head off Richard's chest more to look around.
"Every day is exciting," said Jordana. "Lots of hope."

   What was not encouraging was Jacob's sleeping patterns. He was constantly
waking at night now and often would not go back to bed. "We're exhausted," said
Jordana in mid-February. "We haven't had a good night's sleep in a month and a
half." Their pediatrician prescribed a sedative for Jacob, but Jordana resisted.
"We didn't want to do that," she said. "I hate giving in to this disease." For
his part, Richard had surrendered. His attitude was, "Get the chloral hydrate!"
The researchers told the Sontags his wakefulness might be positive, a sign gene
therapy was working. They reasoned the new genes had so stimulated his brain, a
sensory rush was keeping him awake.

   Or it could be that Jacob was experiencing the classic sleep problems of an
aging Canavan child.

   Exhausted, Jordana no longer cared. The researchers didn't have to get up
with him at 4 A.M. On Feb. 20, she was in tears. "Jacob did not sleep at all,"
she said. "I'm sorry we did the procedure. The only thing we got out of all this
-- he can't sleep! It's so cruel."

   Plus, they were pushing him for any physical gain while the new genes were
fresh. With Jacob screaming, his physical therapist put on his stiff leg
supports and led him a few steps. Richard placed him on the floor, legs crossed
in a yoga position, his head flopped on his chest, and pleaded, "Lift it -- come
on Boo," but the head did not budge.

   On Feb. 24, Jacob turned 2. They celebrated quietly, the three of them. At
one point, Richard left the room so Jordana would not see him cry.

   That week, Jordana gave in. She explained her decision to medicate Jacob this
way: "I think we're better off as a family if the baby sleeps." They began
giving him Klonopin, a muscle relaxant. It was the turning point. The muscle
relaxant relaxed the parents, too.

   Jacob's stiffness decreased; he stopped grinding his teeth. "Jacob is doing
phenomenal," Richard said in mid-April. "He is in a fabulous mood." Why? "He's
stoned," said Richard. "It's hard to know how much is Klonopin or the gene
therapy or physical therapy five times a week. There are so many variables."

   Jordana's fantasy, that he'd sit up, hadn't happened. "Not yet," she said.
"In the past, I'd be devastated. But I feel I don't have to worry now. We got
him the gene therapy; we've done all we can. I guess if I had to choose between
motor skills and the cognitive, I'd choose this. He'll hang out in bed with us.
We just lay him flat and play with him. Everything is funny to him now. Richard
brought him in the other morning. I said, 'Little Man.' He starts smiling. 'Hi,
Little Man.' He says, 'Hi.' I heard him!"

   Jordana did not wait for During's lab to call with the latest results; she
phoned Philadelphia herself and wormed it out of the M.R.I. people. "They gave
me an unofficial report that Jacob has myelin!" she said on June 5. "They still
have to do a comparison with the last M.R.I., but I have a feeling it's in the
area that controls cognition."

   Four days later, she left a message: "Wanted to let you know we received the
report, and it says there have not been significant changes.He does have myelin,
but it's the myelin he had prior to gene therapy."

   Jordana returned to work part time. They sold the big house and moved to an
attractive ranch house that was half the price. It was a nice fit, on one floor,
easy for Jacob. All the rooms had furniture.

   She was busy raising money for the Canavan Research Fund the families had
founded. She spoke with rabbis and doctors about publicizing the new prenatal
screening test for Canavan that was developed in the mid-1990's after Matalon's
failure.

   On June 19, the Sontags met with a lawyer about a "wrongful birth" lawsuit
they had filed against the doctors Jordana used when she was pregnant with
Jacob. In the lawsuit, Jordana claims she had repeatedly requested all relevant
prenatal screening tests and had been given several but not the new one for
Canavan. During the meeting, Jordana held Jacob and explained how they had
struggled to enrich his life. So it wasn't until the end that the lawyer, Bruce
Clark asked the awkward question, "You would have had an abortion had you
known?"

   "Absolutely," said Jordana. "Even with this little man in my arms, I would."

   "It's not fair," said Richard. "Trapped in that body."

   The previous year, Richard had dismissed the National Tay-Sachs and Allied
Diseases conference as too touchy-feely, but this year they went and were the
last to leave a seminar on how people with a disabled child can hold a marriage
together. The therapist had couples take a personality test, and it turned out
Richard was a "fixer" while Jordana was a classic "turtle." And when the turtle
complained, the fixer felt he had to make everything all right, scaring the
turtle instead of just giving that little turtle a hug. "I know this sounds
totally ridiculous," Jordana would say later, "but it made perfect sense at the
time."

   The next day, the three Sontags were at a deli getting Jacob his matzoh-ball
soup when Jordana realized she'd forgotten an appointment to visit a school for
Jacob. "I know why," she told Richard. They had run into three families just
back from a Little League game, all these messy, jumpy, little noodgie boys, and
here the Sontags were heading to some depressing handicapped school. "I don't
know why you're feeling that way," Richard started, but Jordana cut him off.
"We're not even away from this marriage seminar for 24 hours," she said, "and
you're trying to fix everything, Mr. Fixer," which made Richard laugh. The
turtle was out of her shell, snapping.

   On Sept. 9, Jacob went to Yale for his second injection. He was home in two
days. Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, in Philadelphia, where During and
Leone now work, was also doing the procedure.

   That month, nine therapists and social workers gathered to discuss the new
program Jacob was starting at the Saint Agnes rehabilitation center, where the
typical disabled child receives $33,000 a year in government-financed services.
Jacob's home therapists were there to advise the school therapists who would be
taking over.

   Richard and Jordana took turns rocking their 2 1/2-year-old and giving him a
bottle. "He has been making tremendous strides," Richard said. Adler, the speech
therapist, explained how much of her time was spent working on chewing and
swallowing. She didn't say it, but most Canavan children wind up on feeding
tubes. "He'll drink from a cup, but there's still spillage on the sides," she
said. She warned that he sometimes choked on solids, "a bit of a safety issue."
As if on cue, Jacob began gagging on a waffle Jordana was feeding him, coughing
and turning red. The room went dead. "Breathe," said Jordana. There was a moan
and Jacob's normal color returned.

   "He never used to cough so well," said Nancy Wolff, his physical therapist.
"This is good."

   Someone asked if he could flip a switch, and his occupational therapist said
no. When the center's medical director, Dr. Maria Pici, asked what gains he had
made, the physical therapist said he could roll on his side if she helped. "If I
give him minimal facilitation depending on his mood and I tell him, 'Jacob bring
your arm over, bring your leg over,' and of course I'm aligning him, he can
roll," Wolff said.

   They asked what Jacob liked. "Human contact," said Wolff. "And silliness. He
loves silliness."

   "Gassy noises, he loves them," Richard said.

   "He's there," his physical therapist said. "Definitely," his occupational
therapist said.

   Jacob's Oct. 21 report from Children's Hospital in Philadelphia showed no new
myelin. While researchers kept the other children's results confidential,
parents talked, and Jordana learned that none of the children's M.R.I.'s showed
myelin. Or, as Jordana put it, "at least not yet." Still, she saw potential in
another new development. Jacob's ophthalmologist had found evidence of new
myelin in his eyes. It wasn't likely to help Jacob see better, but the doctor
found it "fascinating."

   Some families grew discouraged. One dropped out, and even Helene Karlin had
mixed feelings. "I don't even want to talk to the other parents," she said. "I
don't want them to hear any discouraging note. They need to fight." There was
another setback. The 5 percent risk from implanting the reservoir -- it
happened. In September, one child developed a serious complication and the
reservoir was removed. Doctors sought to determine if there was brain damage.

   Some stories do not end as you expect. A year and a half ago, I could see the
two central themes clearly. First, the curse of science: how a new medicine like
gene therapy could seem to offer so much hope and yet cause so much pain,
because it is still only promise. And second, the blessing of science: how the
pursuit of new medicine could lead to a prenatal screening that would allow the
Sontags to have a healthy baby the next time. I envisioned the story closing
joyously, with Jordana giving birth to a new child.

   What I witnessed instead was the hardships of the pioneer family. At the
Sontags' meeting with the lawyer last summer, he asked if they would try to have
another child. "We've only started to discuss that," Richard said softly.

   Last month, Richard called as I was finishing the article. He was concerned I
hadn't seen Jacob in weeks. "He's a whole new child," said Richard. "They love
him at school," said Jordana.

   On Nov. 5, I spent the day with Jacob. That morning at Saint Agnes, a
well-staffed, bright, state-of-the-art rehab center, Jacob fell asleep while two
speech therapists were having him practice eating a Ritz Bits cracker. In class,
it took more than an hour to feed him a pureed lunch. His teachers and aides
talked about how much he loved the computer, but when placed in front of it, he
fell asleep again.

   Then at home that night, Jacob was another child. His face lit up when
Richard returned from work and kissed him hello. For two hours, the Sontags
roughhoused. They called him Boo and Bubbles, Mr. Head and Little Man, and the
noisier and louder and sillier they all grew, the more Mr. Stinky Butt beamed
and his eyes shone. It was wonderful to see, and for once I stopped trying to
guess how much was going on inside. This was medicine more remarkable than new
genes, Klonopin or physical therapy five times a week -- a parent's love.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard and Jordana with Jacob, after he was hospitalized with
a 103-degree fever.; Above: Richard and Jacob at mealtime. Right: Jordana in a
moment of quiet anguish.; Richard comforting Jacob as Dr. Charles Duncan,
center, and his assistant, Dr. Sung Lee, inject the new genes.; Dr. Margretta
Seashore, the noted genetics professor at Yale.; Romping with Jacob -- aka Boo,
Bubbles, Mr. Head or Little Man -- at home. (Photographs by James Estrin)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1998


                             1728 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



               December 5, 1998, Saturday, 2Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: COMING ON SUNDAY

BODY:


   KEEPING JACOB ALIVE

Their 19-month-old son was deteriorating quickly. Only an experimental gene
therapy could help. The Sontags didn't want to hear that the scientists weren't
quite sure the treatment was safe. They insisted on it, even if the cost was
their marriage. A report by Michael Winerip, in the magazine.

HOLIDAY BOOKS

A 100-page section, including the editors' choice of the 11 best books of 1998;
roundups on travel, cooking, gardening, art, architecture and photography; and a
list of more than 300 notable books of the year. Book Review.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1998


                             1729 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1998 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    December 1, 1998, Tuesday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: LIFESTYLES, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: USED TOO MUCH, ANTIBIOTICS ARE LOSING THEIR FIGHT

BYLINE: JIM WARREN; Knight Ridder

BODY:


   Here's a scene that will be played out in countless physicians' offices this
flu-and-cold season -- and it contributes to one of modern medicine's most
perplexing problems.

   A parent brings in a small child -- feverish and crying with a suspected ear
infection -- and demands an antibiotic to give relief. The doctor, eager to help
and wanting to please, prescribes the antibiotic -- even though he knows there
is a good chance that the infection is caused by a virus or an allergic reaction
and that the antibiotic won't do any good.

   Worse, this inappropriate use of antibiotics could help develop drug
resistance in any bacteria that are lurking in the child's body.

   Antibiotic resistance is happening everywhere doctors look. Many antibiotics
that could easily knock out infectious bacteria a few decades ago are now only
marginally effective or don't work at all because the bugs have become immune to
them.

   In many such cases, the only alternatives may be to cut out the infection
with surgery; fall back on older, more toxic drugs, or just hope for the best.

   Several factors are fueling the problem. But experts agree that a major cause
is doctors' tendency to overprescribe antibiotics -- and patients' tendency to
overuse them.

   During the past 60 years antibiotics such as penicillin and vancomycin have
tamed many once-feared disorders. But too much of a good thing now is helping
those diseases become a threat again. Some people fear that if a solution isn't
found, drug resistance eventually might knock the foundations out from under
modern medicine, turning the clock back to the days, not so long ago, when
people routinely died from simple infections because there was no way to stop
them.

   "It's happening right now, not tomorrow, not six months from now, but today,"
says Robert Rapp, a professor of pharmacy at the University of Kentucky who
works on the problem. "Germs are smart. And if you use enough of one drug in
enough patients, and expose the bacteria to enough of that drug, the bacteria
will find a way to get around it."

   Antibiotic resistance has been a problem for years. But it exploded in the
early 1990s, with more and more bugs resisting more and more drugs.
Penicillin-resistant strep pneumonia appeared about 1981, for example, but the
number of cases stayed small. Then, around 1991, resistant strep jumped from
about 3 percent of all pneumonia cases to about 35 percent. It has been growing
ever since.

   Perhaps not coincidentally, this comes at a time when many infectious
diseases -- once all but eradicated -- are on the rebound. Nationally, deaths in
which infectious disease was an underlying cause increased by 58 percent between
1980 and 1992, with the greatest rise in the 25 to 44 age group. Infectious
disease was the fifth leading cause of death in 1980. By 1992, it was third,
behind cardiovascular disease and cancer.

   One way to slow drug resistance, Rapp and other experts say, is for all of
us, doctors and patients alike, to use antibiotics more judiciously.

   "We've grown accustomed to reaching for a pill any time we get sick," says
Dr. Claire Pomeroy, chief of infectious diseases at the University of Kentucky.
"People feel like they haven't gotten their money's worth from their doctor's
visit if they don't walk out with a prescription."

   Doctors often feel pressured to give antibiotics, even when they know it
might not be the best practice, says Dr. Stan Block, a pediatrician who gives
talks to medical groups on drug resistance.

   Saying no is tough when patients or families expect antibiotics.

   "It can have economic repercussions," Block said. "You're reluctant to have
the patient leave and maybe go see the doctor down the street. And if the
patient is a child and the parent is working, she may say: 'I have to get back
to work. Put my child on antibiotics so I don't have to come back again.' Years
ago, parents might keep a child at home and just sit out an infection. Now most
don't have that luxury."

   So, Block says, too many doctors keep doling out too many antibiotics for ear
infections, fevers and other problems, even though many such cases are viral and
likely to disappear on their own in a few days.

   For example, some studies indicate that in more than half of all ear
infections of children, the inflammation disappears on its own without the use
of antibiotics.

   And it doesn't happen just with young patients. Block notes that adult
patients frequently call their doctors, describe their symptoms and expect the
physician to call an antibiotic prescription in to the pharmacy without making
any formal diagnosis.

   Rapp explains how overuse of antibiotics can contribute to drug resistance.

   "In a colony of billions of bacteria, you may have only a few cells that are
naturally resistant to the antibiotic. But when you give the drug, you kill off
all the susceptible cells and leave behind only the resistant ones. They can
then survive, reproduce and pass this resistance along to later generations. As
you give more antibiotic, you select out more and more resistant microbes. In
turn, they can spread into the environment. Over time, most of the bacteria
become resistant."

   Also, the stress of being exposed to antibiotics can trigger genetic
mutations in bacteria that help them resist the drugs. They can then pass along
their resistant traits through reproduction or by literally exchanging genetic
information with other bacteria. And because microbes replicate so rapidly -- a
single bacterium can produce a billion offspring in as little as 10 hours --
huge numbers of resistant cells can appear in a short time.

   The result, Rapp says, is that bacteria develop multiple ways to outsmart
drugs. Some produce enzymes to destroy the drug itself; others strengthen their
cell walls to keep drugs from entering; some develop "pumps" to push out any
drugs that breach the cell wall.

   Overuse of antibiotics -- which Rapp says is "rampant in this country" -just
speeds up the process.

   Medical authorities keep publishing guidelines for proper antibiotic use, and
most hospitals now have strict rules covering prescriptions.

   Some activists have proposed laws mandating when and how antibiotics should
be dispensed, but Rapp doubts that that idea is workable.

   "Can you imagine Congress trying to practice infectious-disease medicine?" he
asked.

   Block says that in his practice he tries to guide patients away from
antibiotics unless the drugs are really needed. In non-critical cases, he often
urges parents to wait a few days, giving a child's infection a chance to go
away, before resorting to antibiotics. But he admits it's tough.

   "It's hard to get the individual to see the benefit. You're sort of talking
about what's good for the community vs. what's good for that individual."

   The ultimate answers, Rapp contends, will be new vaccines to prevent
infectious diseases, better antibiotics that germs can't resist and gene
therapies to provide new ways of attacking diseases.

   But until those answers are found, Dr. Pomeroy says, we may have to get over
our love affair with antibiotics.

   "We've been through a sort of honeymoon, when penicillin and sulfa could cure
pretty much anything you came down with," she said. "People thought antibiotics
could cure any infection, so they wanted antibiotics. But that's just an
illusion that we've created for people."

GRAPHIC: Knight Ridder/Tribune News Pediatrician Stan Block says antibiotics
have been overused partly because parents are busy. "Years ago, parents might
keep a child at home and just sit out an infection," he says. "Now most don't
have that luxury."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998


                             1730 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                   November 30, 1998, Monday, Home Edition
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2190 words

HEADLINE: THE CUTTING EDGE;
 AMGEN FACES HAZARDS TO ITS HEALTH;
 BIOTECH LEADER IS EMBROILED IN BATTLES OVER PATENTS, LICENSING AND MEDICARE
FUNDING
FOR THE RECORD

BYLINE: PAUL JACOBS, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   By almost every measure, Amgen Inc. has made it to the top of the mountain.

   Whether measured by revenue, profit or market value of its stock, it is the
biggest biotechnology company in the world. Moreover, its top two drugs--each
ringing up more than $ 1 billion a year in sales--assure the company of solid
profit while extending the lives of patients suffering from kidney failure and
cancer.

   Yet after an 18-year climb to the summit, Amgen's perch seems precarious.

   Consider what the Thousand Oaks-based company is facing: a long-simmering
patent dispute that threatens its best-selling products, a federal effort to cut
Medicare spending on its leading drug and a running dispute with a
pharmaceutical giant that could cut into Amgen's bottom line.

   And as analysts look at the company's pipeline of products in development,
they fret that the best candidates are still a long way from market.

   In biotechnology and drug development--in which a useful product can be
displaced by a more effective competitor, or an unexpected side effect can
sideline a potentially profitable product--life at the top is inevitably
insecure.

   Perhaps the biggest source of insecurity for Amgen these days is its patent
war with Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.

   The Cambridge, Mass.-based company has developed a novel way of producing
Amgen's best-selling drug, Epogen, the product that propelled Amgen to the top
of the biotechnology heap with sales reaching $ 1.4 billion a year and climbing.
The drug, a version of the naturally occurring protein erythropoietin, or EPO,
is used to treat anemia in kidney dialysis patients and in cancer patients
treated with chemotherapy.

   Amgen has hauled Transkaryotic into federal court, claiming patent
infringement.

   "It might take as much as $ 200 million to develop a new product, but it
might take $ 20 million to copy it," Amgen Chairman and Chief Executive Gordon
Binder said. "We believe every time we develop a new product, someone will try
to copy it. If we had a large pile of gold bullion, someone would try to steal
it. The difference is, if someone stole bullion, we could turn to the police for
help."

   This is not the first patent battle over EPO. The last one, against another
Cambridge-based company, Genetics Institute, ended with a victory for Amgen in a
case that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.

   But Transkaryotic and its partner, German pharmaceutical giant Hoechst Marion
Roussel, have proved formidable opponents. Although they were unable to get the
patent infringement suit thrown out of court, they did get a favorable ruling
from the judge that allowed the companies to continue to test their own brand of
EPO.

   The ruling came this year under a provision of law that shields companies
from infringement suits while testing patented products.

   Amgen's response was an all-out effort to persuade Congress to change the
law. While Binder, the CEO, emphatically denies that Amgen has tried to exert
political pressure, the firm and its employees have contributed more than $
500,000 to federal election campaigns since 1994, including $ 190,000 in
contributions to the Senate and House Republican campaign committees, federal
election records show.

   Last month, the end-of-session lobbying in Washington failed amid widespread
industry opposition to hasty changes in the 14-year-old statute.

   "Most companies not involved with it did not have a full understanding,"
Binder said. The lobbying was intended to correct a drafting error in the
original statute, he said.

   Transkaryotic's president and CEO, Dr. Richard F. Selden, contends that when
Amgen got an unfavorable ruling in court, it went behind the scenes to overturn
the law. "This needs to be done in an open session of Congress, not behind
closed doors," he said.

   Amgen filed suit when it did, he said, because its executives "figured they
could disrupt us and slow down our programs."

   He is braced for combat. "We assume Amgen will try to battle us around the
world," Selden said.

   In fact, Amgen's infringement lawsuit will likely be resolved only after
Transkaryotic brings matters to a head, probably by seeking Food and Drug
Administration approval to market its drug, which is expected to occur late next
year.

   And the battle between the two companies may not end there. Selden says
Transkaryotic is prepared to move ahead with testing of a second human protein
product he won't identify. Several Wall Street analysts speculate it will be a
new version of Neupogen, Amgen's other billion-dollar-a-year product. The
injectable drug is widely used by cancer patients to boost levels of white blood
cells, which have been depleted by chemotherapy.

   Analysts take the Transkaryotic-Hoechst challenge seriously, but are divided
over which side will prevail.

   "We've done our own patent analysis," said Thomas J. Dietz, a managing
director at Pacific Growth Equities. "We are very comfortable that the process
by which Transkaryotic manufactures its product is not caught by any of Amgen's
patents."

   "We reached the conclusion that Amgen will ultimately prevail," said Dennis
Harp, biotech analyst at BT Alex. Brown. Harp points out that even if Amgen
wins, Transkaryotic will be able to enter the European markets in a few years.
However, he sees strong growth ahead for both companies.


   *

   Thus far, Amgen has proved to be a boon to shareholders. Those who snatched
up the stock during its lowest ebb in the 1980s have enjoyed as much as a
500-fold increase in value. Fixed in company lore is the Amgen employee who sold
shares in those early years to buy a car, now referred to as "the $ 1-million
Volkswagen."

   Originally called Applied Molecular Genetics, the company was launched in
1980 by a small group of venture capitalists who believed there was room for
another biotech company along the lines of Genentech Inc. and Biogen Inc.,
recalled George Rathmann, the company's first chief executive.

   Rathmann soon assembled a top-flight scientific advisory board. High on its
list of drug candidates was EPO, a protein produced in the kidney that
stimulates red blood cell production.

   When the kidneys fail, patients don't produce enough EPO; they become anemic
and require frequent blood transfusions.

   In 1976, Eugene Goldwasser's lab at the University of Chicago isolated EPO in
minuscule amounts from 2,500 quarts of urine--a breakthrough largely unheralded
at the time. When he wrote university officials that the substance might be
worth a patent, he never got a response. "The university lost out on a
billion-dollar-a-year drug, and I lost out on 1% of it," Goldwasser said in a
recent interview.

   Companies soon approached him with ideas for producing EPO to treat anemia in
kidney failure patients.

   But several scientists realized that if they could find the gene for EPO,
they could splice it into cells for turning out commercial quantities of the
protein. In the early 1980s, in a triumph of genetic engineering, two companies
succeeded: Amgen and Genetics Institute.

   A decade later, after a bitter patent battle, a federal court determined that
Amgen scientist Fu-Kuen Li made the discovery months ahead of his counterpart at
the rival firm. The ruling gave Amgen and its partners exclusive rights to
produce EPO.

   Today, the company is the sole source of EPO for kidney dialysis patients in
the U.S., where sales of Epogen have grown steadily to $ 1.4 billion a year.
Amgen also manufactures the drug for Ortho Biotech, a division of Johnson &
Johnson, which markets it in Europe and, to treat anemia brought on by
chemotherapy, in the U.S.

   Analysts have been keeping their eye on a long-running battle Amgen has had
with the Health Care Financing Administration, which sets policy for Medicare.
The federal health program has been picking up 80% of the cost of Epogen for
kidney dialysis patients in the U.S. since the drug was first marketed in
1989--that's about $ 940 million a year, according to a 1997 inspector general's
report.

   Earlier this year, the Clinton administration failed in an attempt to
persuade Congress to cut reimbursement for EPO by 10% to eliminate a windfall
going to kidney dialysis clinics and hospitals. This month, federal officials
announced they planned to cut the payments administratively--an action that
could put pressure on Amgen to cut its prices.

   In the meantime, Amgen is testing a long-acting replacement for Epogen that
has performed well in clinical trials. The new drug would lengthen the time
between treatments and allow Amgen to compete with its own licensee, Johnson &
Johnson, in Europe and for the non-dialysis market in the U.S.

   Johnson & Johnson has objected, arguing that the new version is covered by
its license. The matter is expected be settled in arbitration next year. A win
would be a major coup for Amgen. There is little room for a compromise,
according to Amgen's Binder. "In this case, it's likely to be one way or the
other, in or out," he said.


   *

   Analysts see the long-acting EPO as the most important drug in the company's
development pipeline and are watching the results carefully.

   Bear, Stearns & Co. analyst David Molowa recently downgraded the stock from
"buy" to "attractive" because of problems he sees in the product pipeline. "At
current prices, the stock is performing very well based on a strong underlying
business," he said. "But for the stock to move higher, you have to assume a
positive outcome on the Johnson & Johnson arbitration."

   Other drugs in development have disappointed.

   Leptin, a human hormone that plays a role in weight regulation, has so far
had mixed results in treating obesity. In September, the company abandoned a
drug it was developing to stimulate blood platelet production in cancer
chemotherapy patients and platelet donors. Testing of the drug was stopped when
some donors receiving the drug unexpectedly developed low platelet counts.

   The company has already begun sales of Infergen, approved for treatment of
hepatitis C, but it faces competition from other products already on the market.

   It is negotiating with the FDA for final approval of Stemgen, a product aimed
at an estimated 12,000 cancer patients who undergo stem cell transplants each
year.

   There are still other drugs in development that could tap into much bigger
markets, including treatments for Parkinson's disease, osteoporosis and
rheumatoid arthritis.

   Developing new drugs is by its nature a risky business, Binder said, in which
companies are judged by their latest success.

   "It is not unlike the oil business or the movie business," he said. "In the
oil business, you drill a lot of holes, and a lot of them are dry and only a few
come in. In the movie business, you make a lot of movies, but there are not a
lot of blockbusters."


   *

   Paul Jacobs can be reached via e-mail at paul.jacobs@latimes.com.


   Amgen's Product Pipeline

   Amgen has three approved products on the market and several others in
development. Here's a sampling:

   Epogen

   - Use: A genetically engineered version of a natural protein that stimulates
red blood cell production, this drug is approved for use in kidney dialysis
patients and cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.

   - Status: Approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1989. Sales have
reached $ 1.4 billion a year.

   Neupogen

   - Use: Another engineered protein, this drug stimulates production of
infection-fighting white blood cells. Prescribed for cancer patients receiving
chemotherapy and AIDS patients.

   Company is seeking approval for use in patients with severe pneumonia.

   - Status: Approved by the FDA in 1991; has sales of $ 1.1 billion a year.

   Infergen

   - Use: An artificial version of human interferon, this drug has been approved
for patients with chronic hepatitis C.

   - Status: Approved by the FDA in late 1997; competes with two other
interferons already on the market; has sales of about $ 20 million a year.

   Stemgen

   - Use: This drug stimulates production of stem cells, which create both red
and white blood cells. It was tested on cancer patients undergoing high-dose
chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplantation.

   - Status: Recommended for approval by an FDA scientific advisory committee;
negotiations with FDA continuing.

   NESP (novel erythropoiesis stimulating protein)

   - Use: This drug is a long-acting version of Epogen.

   - Status: Undergoing tests. Arbitration will determine whether NESP will be
able to compete in markets in which Johnson & Johnson currently has licensed
exclusive rights for Epogen.

   OPG (osteoprotegerin)

   - Use: A naturally occurring protein that regulates bone mass, this drug is
being developed for osteoporosis and treatment of cancer that has spread to
bones.

   - Status: Undergoing clinical trials in healthy, post-menopausal women.

   GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor)

   - Use: This drug appears to protect neurons from cell death and could prove
useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

   - Status: Being tested on Parkinson's patients.

   Source: Amgen

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 1998, Thursday

CORRECTION:
Amgen CEO--In a story Nov. 30, The Times incorrectly identified George Rathmann
as the first chief executive of Amgen Inc. In fact, UCLA scientist Winston
Salser was the initial chief executive and recruited the company's scientific
advisors.


GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Research associate Wyeth Jones works in Amgen's lab in Thousand
Oaks. Amgen, the biggest biotechnology company in the world, was started in
1980.  PHOTOGRAPHER: BRYAN CHAN / Los Angeles Times PHOTO: Developing new drugs
is a risky business, says Amgen's chairman and CEO, Gordon Binder.
PHOTOGRAPHER: BRYAN CHAN / Los Angeles Times PHOTO: Researcher Yan Yan Xie
conducts an experiment. Analysts fear Amgen is far from developing new
blockbuster drugs.  PHOTOGRAPHER: BRYAN CHAN / Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1998


                             1731 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                November 29, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: A Teen-Ager's Legacy: A Cancer Lab

BYLINE: By DIANE SIERPINA

BODY:

   CHRISTINE FRISBEE decided to start a real estate consulting business a few
months ago. It is, she thinks, time to move on. For the past nine years, the New
Canaan mother of five has devoted most of her time to fighting cancer because,
at his deathbed, she had promised her teen-age son that she would do that.

   Richard Frisbee 3d died in December 1989, just before his 16th birthday, from
an unusual form of leukemia. Last month, Richard's father, who is known as Rick,
said he felt his son's spirit at Yale-New Haven Hospital where the Frisbee
Laboratory for stem cell and gene therapy research was officially dedicated and
opened. The lab was tangible proof to the family -- and the medical community --
that the many years of hard work and the more than $1 million raised for Yale in
Richard's memory had been worth the effort.

    "I think Richie would be very proud," says Mrs. Frisbee of the new research
lab, the only one of its kind in Connecticut. "He was a lot like me -- very
driven. But he would be so proud that it wasn't only for him, but for all the
other kids who tried to make it, but didn't."

   Mrs. Frisbee, an antiques dealer, and her husband, a Wall Street trader (no,
there is no connection to the popular toy), created the Richard D. Frisbee III
Foundation in 1990, bringing leading-edge research in bone marrow
transplantation and higher-level cancer patient care to Yale.

   "Everybody hopes that some good comes out of such a terrible situation," said
Dr. Dennis Cooper, director of bone marrow and stem cell transplants at the Yale
School of Medicine. "For many people, it's just a hope. For the Frisbees, they
know it's happened."

   The Frisbee Laboratory was designed with a filtration system that makes the
air inside it sterile. Dr. Cooper says it will facilitate many research projects
that may lead to bone marrow transplants from partially matched donors and
genetic manipulation of defective cells that would benefit breast cancer victims
and others. "I feel like a little part of history," Mrs. Frisbee says. "Richie
would have had a much better chance if he were alive today."

   The foundation has also dedicated funds to clinical research fellowships and
to better patient information and care.

   Just as the Frisbees saw something rare at Yale during their son's care
there, Yale's medical staff saw something special in Mrs. Frisbee. In 1992 the
university invited her to apply for a new position as coordinator of the
unrelated bone marrow donor program, despite her lack of a medical background.
She held that post for four years and then, in 1996, became administrator of the
bone marrow and stem cell program until her departure from Yale this summer.

   "I felt it was time and I needed to do something different for a while," she
says. "I needed to be grounded with my family."

   The Frisbees have two daughters at home, Meganne, 17, and Mary Jane, 15, both
students at New Canaan High School. A son, Jim, 21, is a student at the
University of Colorado and another daughter, Kirsten, 27, is married and living
in New Jersey.

   Meganne was 7 when she was chosen as a bone marrow donor for her older
brother because they were genetically matched. "I pretty much was shocked and
wondered why it was me out of all the family," she said recently. "I didn't know
what to think." Although she was too young to understand the pressures on her
family at the time and the loss of her brother, she says she understands now as
a teen-ager.

   "Looking back at it, I'm almost more upset now," she says. "It's just hitting
me now that he'd be like my age."

   Meganne praised her mother's dedication to Yale and the foundation's work.
"It wasn't like she wasn't there for us," she said. "I think it was almost more
important that she was helping others who needed that extra care."

   Richard was an athletic high school freshmen when in September 1988 he called
his mother at an antiques show to say he wasn't feeling well and stayed home
from school.

   After a visit to his local pediatrician, he was quickly referred to Yale,
where the leukemia diagnosis was made. Mrs. Frisbee says she had a premonition
that the family's life would be changed forever.

   In retrospect, Mrs. Frisbee says there were signs that something was wrong
with Richard. He complained once or twice about aching bones and fatigue.

   She remembers receiving letters from his summer Outward Bound counselors
reporting that Richard wasn't keeping up. The boy's leukemia was aggressive and
he went through seven rounds of high dose chemotherapy, four before and three
after his bone marrow transplant.

   By November, the signs were clear that he would not survive. One day, he
asked his mother, "Am I going to make it through this?" And she told him
honestly that it would take a miracle. Mrs. Frisbee recalls her son telling her,
"Mom, make sure this doesn't happen to somebody else."

   It took only a few months after her son's death before Mrs. Frisbee found her
mission at Yale. "It was a catharsis for me," she says. Her daily involvement
allowed her to see the medical school's needs from both the patients' and the
doctors' perspectives, says Dr. Cooper. "She realized what the frustrations are
at a very inside level," he says. "It's not the type of thing we'd normally
share with patients or patients' families."

   Her husband, on the other hand, could not bring himself to spend time at Yale
because of the memories, and committed himself to the fund-raising events --
like the annual golf tournament. But he said that visiting Yale recently, to see
the new Frisbee Lab, brought it all home for him. "It was very enlightening," he
says, complimenting his wife's dedication. "As she says, it's sort of a dream
come true."

   Over the years, the Frisbee Foundation has provided grants for two bone
marrow transplant fellowships, six nursing scholarships in pediatric
hematology/oncology, a pediatric chemotherapy infusion clinic at Yale-New Haven
Hospital and a handbook for patients and their families, among other things.

   The foundation has also established a Frisbee Fund in conjunction with the
Leukemia Society of America to help patients with the initial costs of finding
an unrelated bone marrow donor.

   Although Mrs. Frisbee will be devoting more time to looking at colleges with
her daughter and to her new business, called First Impressions Home Marketing
(offering to help homeowners prepare their homes for sale by, among other
things, renting them antiques and paintings), the family plans to continue the
foundation's work.

   A golf tournament is planned for the spring and a dinner dance in February
2000. Many foundations are short-lived, says Mrs. Frisbee.  "You get too worn
out. And there's a part of you that needs closure and to move on," she explains.

   Mr. Frisbee credits supporters with keeping the foundation strong. "We've
been able to do a lot of good things because a lot of people have continued to
support us in small ways and in large ways," he says. "That's been very
encouraging.

   "As much of a tragedy as it is, we've been lucky. Not everybody can go
through life and make some kind of a difference or make an impact in other
peoples' lives," he added.

   "I think when you have the opportunity, you're supposed to do that. I believe
that even more now than I ever did before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Frisbee, right, with Mary Beth Martin and her
daughter, April, at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. (Thomas McDonald for The New
York Times)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1998


                             1732 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 1998 The Sunday Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                    The Sunday Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            November 29, 1998 Sunday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B13

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVES SAY FINANCING FOR BIOTECH VENTURES IS DRYING UP

BYLINE: MARK GUIDERA THE BALTIMORE SUN

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

BODY:

   Sunday, November 29, 1998 EXECUTIVES SAY FINANCING FOR BIOTECH VENTURES IS
DRYING UP

   Summary: Investment slides into a severe slump this year, but the  downturn
comes as venture capital funds are flush with cash to spend  elsewhere

   These are heady days for scientists at biotechnology companies as they take
part in what many see as a remarkable revolution in our understanding of
disease and efforts to develop treatments for scourges such as cancer and
spinal cord injuries.

   But for the executives charged with running many of these ventures, these
are days of fret and worry: As their companies burn up cash, traditional
sources of financing such as venture capital and the stock market have gone
bone dry.

   "It's really dismal," said Robert Curtis, chief executive officer of
Baltimore-based Lion Pharmaceuticals Inc. The company was born two years ago  as
the nation's first biotech venture focused on commercializing discoveries  at a
large university, in this case the Johns Hopkins University's School of
Medicine.

   The money situation for the industry might be the worst in a decade, say
company executives and industry experts. The resulting fallout seems destined
to substantially alter the industry landscape. Some experts fear bankruptcy  and
wholesale consolidation; others see only a much tougher sell.

   Still, alarm bells are ringing in struggling biotechnology companies from
Maryland to California, experts say.

   Burrill & Co., a San Francisco-based merchant bank active in the life
sciences industry, says investments in biotechnology have slumped severely  this
year, particularly in the third quarter -- down 88 percent from the same  period
last year.

   Curtis, for example, spent the better part of the year fruitlessly shopping
for up to $15 million in a second round of financing after landing $2.3  million
in start-up money from the city, state and Anthem Capital LLP, a  Baltimore
venture capital group, in 1996.

   As a result, Curtis has focused on restructuring Lion to make it more
attractive. But instead of again targeting Wall Street deal-makers and venture
capitalists, he expects to raise money in the "angel" market of well-heeled
individual investors or possibly big pension funds and other money managers
looking for an investment with a big payoff potential.

   For the most recent quarter, the nation's public companies raised $242
million compared with $2.2 billion in the same quarter last year, according to
G. Steven Burrill, founder and chief executive officer of Burrill & Co.

   "The equity financing window for biotechnology is essentially shut down,"
Burrill said. "It's a pretty barren landscape out there for now. There's very
little money available, and that is having a dramatic effect on the industry."

   The downturn comes as venture capital funds are flush with cash to invest.
In the third quarter of this year venture capital funds invested a record  $3.77
billion in emerging companies, up 29 percent from the same period a year ago,
according to PriceWaterhouseCoopers' quarterly Money Tree report.

   Software development and information companies got the lion's share of the
funding, the consulting outfit found.

   One key reason for the shift is that venture outfits are finding they can
fund a start-up Internet or info-tech company and take it public or otherwise
sell their stakes quickly, in some cases for staggering returns.

   The financing market has been particularly tough on already public  companies
that are starved for cash.

   For the first nine months of this year, secondary public offerings are down
more than 65 percent, according to the Burrill report, to $449 million from
$1.3 billion in the same period last year.

   As a result, some of the companies unable to tap the stock market for more
funds have sought mergers with other biotechnology outfits looking to expand
their technology base.

   For example, Texas-based Gene Medicine Inc., a gene therapy developer,
recently agreed to be bought by competitor Megabios Inc. of California for $39
million.

   "There is still a lot of interest, I think, in technologies and discoveries
that can be nurtured," Lion's Curtis said. "The question everybody's asking  is,
how best to pay for it."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             1733 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1998 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    November 29, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: COMMENTARY, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: New in nonfiction;

BODY:
  ALL THE LAWS BUT ONE: Civil Liberties in Wartime. By William H. Rehnquist.
Knopf. 254 pages. $ 26.

   Writing with a style that emphasizes history rather than legal analysis, the
chief justice of  the U.S. Supreme Court has written a very interesting book on
the tensions that arise during times  of war, when this country has had to
maintain a proper balance between freedom and order. Drawing  heavily on the
Civil War period, Rehnquist shows how Lincoln's famed suspension of the writ of

 habeas corpus was just one instance of compromising what would otherwise be
rights of the citizens  for the sake of the military effort. He also discusses
the workings of the Espionage Act during  World War I and the infamous
relocating of Japanese citizens from the West Coast during the second  World
War. Through it all he does little to criticize and in fact shows how the cause
of liberty  has progressed during the nation's history. He concludes that,
unlike the Latin maxim "In time of  war the laws are silent," they do speak, but
with a different voice. Whether or not you agree with  his basic conservative
viewpoint, the stories contained in this work present an important aspect of
history that is often overlooked.  COLE PORTER: A Biography. By William McBrien.
Knopf. 397 pages. $ 30.

   A close-up and personal look at the gifted composer and lyricist who, through
the good fortune  of having a grandfather with a good fortune, turned to music
almost as a hobby and not as a  livelihood. Always an elitist and often a fop,
Porter grounded his sophisticated lyrics in a  classical education at Yale and
Harvard and a posh prep school. (He arrived from Indiana at  boarding school
with trunks of clothes, paintings and an upright piano.) He drove a French
ambulance in World War I, stayed in Europe after the armistice and didn't really
return full time  to America until 1937. His marriage to wealthy Linda Thomas
(her favorite "department store" was Van  Cleef & Arpels) lasted a lifetime, but
she principally served as a hostess for Cole's constant  parties and as a
barometer for his music. Porter's homosexuality was not a sometime thing but a
raging, always thing, and he often visited male prostitutes in Harlem (and
caught VD in Europe).  Cole doted on the attention a smash Broadway musical
brought him but then would forsake work and be  off on a yearlong party fling.
He died an alcoholic in 1964. Moss Hart said, "Cole Porter was the  greatest
amateur I ever met."  BLACK MAY. By Michael Gannon. HarperCollins. 492 pages. $
30.

   In May 1943, two years of hurried Allied research and development enabled
American and English  forces finally to come within striking distance of the
powerful German U-Bootwaffe, which had  previously ruled the North Atlantic
shipping lanes. Using both German and Allied documents and  accounts, University
of Florida emeritus historian Michael Gannon shows why the shift to Allied
superiority of the seas during this month was crucial to the conquest of Europe.
As in his  absorbing "Drumbeat," about U-boat excursions to the United States
early in the war, Gannon writes  with an appealing style peppered with all the
detail any academic could want. His anecdotes are  especially fascinating - even
the color of aircraft could affect battleworthiness at sea - as are  tales of
comradeship and conflict between and among forces. Modern military history at
its best.  BEYOND BELIEF: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples. By
V.S. Naipaul. Random House. 408  pages. $ 27.95.

   V.S. Naipaul has logged as many miles as any world chronicler, and he's worn
them well. As a  novelist and nonfiction writer, he captures the essence of a
place. He does it again here, as he  moves across central and south Asia where
Islam has taken root. In Indonesia, Iran and Pakistan, an  imported religion has
forever changed the culture. Not, however, for the better, in Naipaul's
estimation. It's clear Naipaul doesn't care much for the Islamic culture. "The
convert has to turn  away from everything that is his," Naipaul writes. "People
develop fantasies about who and what they  are; and in the Islam of converted
countries there is an element of neurosis and nihilism. These  countries can be
easily set on the boil." Look at Indonesia's turmoil, the constant tremors in
Iran,  and Pakistan's dance on the precipice of instability to see how true that
is. Naipaul didn't miss  much.  THE HAND: How Its Use Shapes the Brain,
Language, and Human Culture. By Frank R. Wilson. Pantheon.  416 pages. $ 30.

   Wilson, a neurologist who has worked extensively with manual disorders,
offers a broad  presentation of the human hand and its extensive impact on many
aspects of human existence. The  book's 15 chapters address topics in
anthropology (including primate and human evolution),  biomechanics,
neuroscience and the cognitive sciences. Throughout the book, examples of
"expert" hand  use by musicians, jugglers, magicians, artists, surgeons and even
car mechanics help to give the  reader a respect for (and a state of awe
regarding) the sophistication of the hand and how the hand  has helped to
provide richness and complexity to human culture. While the subject itself can
be  complex, Wilson does a commendable job of keeping it at a level where most
readers should be able  to follow the discussions.  "I would argue that any
theory of human intelligence which ignores the  interdependence of hand and
brain function, the historic origins of that relationship, or the  impact of
that history on developmental dynamics in modern humans, is grossly misleading
and  sterile," Wilson writes. After reading this book, one should easily
understand the significance of  this statement and Wilson's general contention:
"Brain is hand and hand is brain."  IMMORTALITY: How Science Is Extending Your
Life Span - And Changing the World. By Ben Bova. Avon.  283 pages. $ 24.

   Bova has predicted many things during his long and illustrious writing career
- solar power  satellites (1960), organic chemicals in interstellar space
(1962), virtual reality (1962) - to name  a few. His latest prediction? "People
will be physically young as long as they live, and they will  live for
centuries." This pronouncement is based on results from research being conducted
in gene  therapy, human growth hormone treatments, hormone replacement,
telomerase, antioxidants, tissue  regeneration, nanotechnology or a combination
of many of these factors. According to Bova, the  proverbial Fountain of Youth
is realistically attainable in a not-so-distant future. Bova also  offers a
practical observation. The application of all this research "lies just as much
in the halls  of political power and the pulpits of churches as it does in the
laboratories of scientists."  Translation: The social implications will be just
as complex as the scientific studies that promise  mankind the key to longevity.

NOTES: NEW IN NONFICTION BOOKS

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1998


                             1734 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1998 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                  NOVEMBER 27, 1998 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 28A

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE FIRMS VIE FOR GENE PATENTS, ALARM SCIENTISTS

BYLINE: USHA LEE MCFARLING Free Press Washington Staff

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

BODY:

   Tucked in the nucleus of every human cell is a tangled molecular code book --
three billion chemical keys whose mysteries define us as humans.

   In a modern-day gold rush, two biotechnology companies are racing to decipher
that code -- called the human genome -- and use a new type of patent to gain
what could be an extraordinarily profitable monopoly on the human blueprint.

   The nation's top health and science officials are alarmed at the prospect of
large chunks of our genetic code being claimed by private interests. They say
the information should remain unfettered and free to all medical researchers.
And in an energetic counterattack, government-funded scientists are running a
marathon effort to decode and dump as much genetic information as they can onto
the Internet, where it is free to all.

   At Washington University in St. Louis, in the nation's largest DNA-decoding
center, an army of 300 people armed with robots, lasers and code-breaking
computers works nearly around the clock. The center has sequenced and made
public nearly a half-million of the DNA fragments, or ESTs, that are at the
center of this battle between public and private interests.

   "Our concern is that patents are being used in ways that create obstacles to
conquering human diseases," Bruce Alberts, president of the National Academy of
Sciences, said in a letter to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Those fears
have been echoed by National Institutes of Health Director Harold Varmus.

   But private companies are far ahead. Incyte Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Palo
Alto, Calif., has patents pending on 1.2 million DNA fragments. Human Genome
Sciences Inc. of Rockville, Md., has patents pending on millions more -- enough
to grant ownership rights for most human genes. A handful of other companies
reportedly have filed for smaller numbers of the new patents.

   ESTs are tiny chemical fragments that represent a mere fraction of a gene.
Alone, one EST holds little financial value or biological importance. But hosts
of them could prove priceless if they serve as claims stakes for large chunks of
the genome.

   Last week, Incyte quietly announced it had received the nation's first EST
patent -- an award many scientists see as a distortion of the patent system,
because ESTs are simple structures that can be decoded in large numbers by
computers and arguably do not involve invention.

   "The attempt to obtain patent protection of ESTs violates the intent of
patent law, violates the spirit of patent law and uses the patent system exactly
opposite its true intent," said Jonathan King, a professor of molecular biology
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who sits on the board of the
Council for Responsible Genetics, a group of research scientists opposed to
private ownership of genetic material. "It is the suppression of invention and
the constraining of discovery."

   The Supreme Court has ruled that genetically engineered biological organisms
-- bacteria that devour oil or mice that contain human cancer genes -- can be
patented as inventions. And lower courts have ruled that pieces of human DNA can
be patented because they are useful and because they are considered chemicals
rather than human parts.

   Patent Office officials say there is no legal reason not to grant patent
rights for ESTs, which in theory could provide an economic spur to genetic
research.

   But researchers and biotechnology lawyers say the dangers of patenting bits
of DNA are already apparent and may be slowing research on some of today's most
devastating diseases.

   Patent struggles are also cramping work on innovative DNA chips, inch-wide
pieces of silicon or glass that hold thousands of DNA fragments and are a
powerful tool in drug research.

   Those vying for the patents deny they would slow research and say it would be
neither ethical nor profitable to restrict access to the genetic information
they plan to claim. But they do want a share of the profits if anyone
capitalizes on a genetic discovery made on their turf.

   Human Genome Sciences Chief Executive Officer William Haseltine argues that
the patents he is seeking will spur medical research. Haseltine argues that
government attempts to keep genes as a free-for-all are "inimical to medicine
and human health. They are being irresponsible."

   Human Genome Sciences rang alarm bells for many researchers when it granted
exclusive access to its wealth of genetic knowledge to a single drug company.
Its executives promise to license the genes to others once that contract
expires.

   Incyte chief Roy Whitfield said his company has an enlightened licensing
policy, similar to that for Dolby stereo, which allows access to all clients who
sign licensing agreements. They also promise that any scientists doing
noncommercial research will get fair access. "We don't want to hold researchers
hostage," said Randy Scott, Incyte's chief science officer.

   Still, many biologists are angry that patent holders will in essence be
taxing every genetic product that researchers labor to create. "A lot of people
are going to get rich that have not done much work," said Richard Wilson, a
Washington University geneticist and codirector of the genome sequencing center
there.

   Researchers say companies are using ESTs to tag and claim ownership of larger
chunks of the genome, like genes. Critics say it would be like claiming to own a
patent on a watch because you held patents on one or two of its parts.

   Many of the most vocal critics of EST patents hold patents of their own on
larger chunks of DNA. They argue that patents should be awarded only for genes
and only after work is done to understand the usefulness of those genes. That
work has not been done for most ESTs, which are identified by machines in vast
numbers.

   "There's nothing intellectual or scientific about it," said Leroy Hood, who
chairs the department of molecular biotechnology at the University of Washington
and first developed the automatic DNA sequencers central to these patent claims.

   Incyte officials take exception to the characterization of ESTs as worthless
bits of information that can be generated by computers. Fragments of large
numbers of genes, they predict, will be the key to curing genetic diseases.

   They also say their new patent involved sophisticated biology to determine
the eventual role that the ESTs and the genes they are part of play in the body.
"We're quite proud of the quality of our information," said Scott of Incyte.

   The issue of patenting has introduced new veils of secrecy that may already
be having a chilling effect on genetic research. Columns in scientific journals
offering patent advice to scientists tell them, "Don't submit abstracts. Don't
give talks to colleagues. Don't show them your notebooks," said MIT's King.
"This is absolutely contrary to the cooperative culture in science that gave
birth to the biotechnology revolution."

   EST patents are known as "submarine patents" because they can lie in wait,
shrouded in proprietary secrecy, until a researcher shows there is money to be
made in that region of the genome, said Rebecca Eisenberg, a biotechnology
lawyer and professor at the University of Michigan.

   "Patent rights could spring up unawares on someone who's made an investment,"
Eisenberg said. "They could owe money to someone who's made no contribution."

   Hood said he stopped work on a possible colon cancer screening test after he
learned it involved a gene that included an EST for which Incyte has a patent
pending.

   With millions of EST patents, getting permission to use even one gene could
be a legal nightmare for university researchers and drug companies, because one
gene might be covered by dozens of patents.

   The argument over whether ESTs could or should be patented is almost
certainly headed to the courts. The legal debate might spark a wider examination
of where property rights should end and human rights begin.

   "It's ludicrous on its face to think anyone owns DNA, that they had anything
to do with it and did anything but find it," said George Annas, a bioethicist
and professor of health law at the Boston University School of Public Health.
"DNA is the common heritage of humankind."

   MYSTERY OF GENES

   DNA, a deceptively simple molecule, defines who we are as individuals,
directs the complicated workings of our bodies and brains and, in large part,
determines why we get sick.
By finding the 80,000 or so human genes on a strand of human DNA and
understanding how they work, molecular biologists hope to develop drugs that
will repair genes to treat diseases more effectively -- and even revolutionize
medicine by stopping disease before it starts.

   Most major research universities, pharmaceutical companies and the National
Institutes of Health are making efforts to develop new therapies based on the
booming field of molecular biology. Major genetic advances are announced weekly
in academic journals.

   Early attempts at gene therapy have largely failed, in part because of overly
simplistic notions of how genes might work together to cause disease. Some newer
attempts are in clinical trials; many more are on the drawing board.

   About 4,000 illnesses, from cystic fibrosis to breast cancer, are considered
genetic. They can be caused by inheriting a gene mutation that leads to disease
or by a mutation caused by a carcinogen such as cigarette smoke or exposure to
some chemicals.

   Free Press Washington Staff

NOTES: SIDEBAR ATTACHED

GRAPHIC: Photo CHRISTINA MACIAS, Knight Ridder-Tribune
Drawing KRT, LEE HULTENG;
Lisa Spalding works on human DNA at Washington University in St. Louis, in the
nation's largest DNA-decoding center.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002


                             1735 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1998 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          November 25, 1998 Wednesday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 3021 words

HEADLINE: Blood worked;
Experimental treatment for San Diego man with leukemia has mixed success in UCSD
trials

BYLINE: Scott LaFee, STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is an insidious disease, a slow and stealthy
destroyer. It is predominantly an ailment of older men, though it can strike
women and children, too, corrupting their blood with abundant but worthless
white cells, weakening their bodies until, typically, something else comes along
to kill them. For CLL, as the disease is commonly known, there is no cure, and
traditional treatments -- chemotherapy, radiation, surgery -- produce mixed
results.

   Patients frequently complain the treatment is worse than the disease. Two
years ago, Bonsall resident Arthur Jay Rosenthal knew none of this.

   An outgoing 56-year-old promoter of seminars on self-improvement and how to
live rich without the burden of a mortgage, Rosenthal had gone to his doctor in
1996 for a routine prostate exam, something recommended for all men over 50.
Rosenthal's prostate proved OK, but his doctor told him there was a problem with
his blood.

   Tests had re vealed leukemia, specifically CLL. Not surprisingly, Rosenthal
reacted with shock to the news.

   Except for an occasional bout of night sweats, he felt fine. "It was like,
`Not me.

   I'm too healthy.' " In that moment, Rosenthal -- A.J. to his friends --
joined the ranks of nearly 29,000 men, women and children in the United States
who are diagnosed each year with leukemia, a family of blood cancers that kills
21,600 Americans annually.

   CLL alone is blamed for nearly one-quarter of the dead. Rosenthal, a robust,
barrel-chested fellow with a shaved head and neatly trimmed beard, didn't want
to add to that mortality list.

   "I hated the idea of this disease just sneaking in and getting me," he said.

   He had already endured so much. In 1981, Rosenthal had survived a private
plane crash that cracked bones in his back and neck, required surgery for one
leg and left him with amnesia for two years.

   This year, he'd fended off a bout of skin cancer.

   No disease would kill him now, he vowed.

   He'd fight back, whatever the cost.

   It was a decision that would eventually lead him to the high-tech
laboratories of UCSD and a pioneering role in experimental genetic engineering.
Bad blood Human blood is a warm, swirling brew of many things: red blood cells
for transporting oxygen, platelets for better clotting, white blood cells for
the production of antibodies necessary to kill invading bacteria, viruses and
other illness-producing substances. In medical jargon, white blood cells are
called lymphocytes and, like other kinds of blood cells, they are manufactured
in the spongy marrow of bone. In CLL, whose cause is not known, lymphocyte
production inexplicably shifts into overdrive.

   The marrow begins making too many white blood cells, most of which do not
develop correctly.

   Over time, these immature, ineffective lymphocytes clog the body's lymph
system -- a network of thin tubes that delivers lymphocytes to all parts of the
body.

   Like sand grains in a stream, the lymphocytes pile up in small, clustered
organs called lymph nodes, in the spleen and thymus, in bone marrow or in the
blood. Untreated, a person with CLL becomes progressively less able to battle
infection and illness.

   Victims can become anemic as lymphocytes crowd out red blood cells, or
dangerously prone to bruising or bleeding easily as platelets are reduced in
number.

   Chances of recovery depend on how far the disease has advanced before
discovery, the patient's age and general state of health. Desperate measures
Rosenthal, of course, soon learned these hard truths, the reality of having a
potentially terminal disease.

   "It became like this shadow in my life," he said.

   "I'd try to ignore it, to get on with things, but it was always there.

   It made it really hard to do things like exercise or plan for the future."
Yet, Rosenthal also had reason to hope.

   Unlike many CLL patients, he was comparatively young.

   He had exhibited virtually no symptoms of the disease. And, as a former
college and professional athlete, body builder and self-proclaimed inventor of
the aerobic movement in the 1970s, he was still in reasonably good physical
shape. The traditional CLL therapies held no attraction for Rosenthal.

   "I thought something like chemotherapy would do more damage to my body than
help." Instead, he pursued various alternative remedies. First, there was a
six-week stay at a Lemon Grove health institute that prescribed exercise and a
strict vegetarian diet heavy on raw fruits and wheat grass.

   "I lost more than 20 pounds, so obviously there's some merit to the diet,"
Rosenthal said.

   "I did look a lot better.

   But the food did nothing for the leukemia.

   And after a while, I couldn't eat the stuff anymore.

   I'm a meat-and-potatoes guy.

   My favorite vegetable is ketchup." He looked farther south: "I went to
Mexico, where I had heard about something called urine therapy," he said.

   "The idea was to take urine, filter it, add hydrogen peroxide, then
reintroduce it into the body.

   I tried the treatment for three months. Nothing happened." Rosenthal tried
different diets and injections, the latter including megadoses of vitamin B-12
recommended by a Mexican physician.

   "The shots were expensive.

   I don't know if they really work, maybe for some people, but not for me." At
the same time, Rosenthal turned to inspirational, self-help books such as Louise
Hay's "You Can Heal Your Life" (in which the author contends cancer is caused by
deep, long-held resentment), Caroline Myss' "Anatomy of the Spirit" and the
messages of television gurus Tony Robbins, Bill Dyer, Deepak Chopra.

   "I knew some of these people personally.

   I believed in their messages and I thought this would be a method of helping
myself, of mending myself." But throughout, Rosenthal continued to see his
doctor for regular blood tests and new doses of reality.

   Each time, his measured white cell count had risen -- a sign the disease was
progressing.

   Rosenthal, divorced with a grown son living out of state, couldn't help
wondering why it was all happening to him. "Back when I was a ballplayer" --
Rosenthal played football at the University of Hawaii and for the U.S. Marines,
then spent a few years with the Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets -- "I was a
big proponent of steroids.

   It made me think maybe this was the consequence. "Or maybe it was just bad
karma.

   Some days I would get really upset about what was happening.

   I'd get mad.

   Other days, I would get really religious. I believe in a higher force.

   I just don't know where it is." Plan of attack Thomas J. Kipps, 46, is an
immunologist, an internationally known authority on the treatment of leukemias
and lymphomas -- the latter being cancers found in lymphoid tissues including
the spleen and thymus.

   He is also director of UCSD's Human Gene Therapy Program.

   With colleagues, in collaboration with a biotech company called Boehringer
Mannheim Corporation (BMC), Kipps was overseeing the first clinical trials in
San Diego for a CLL gene therapy that would, in theory, jolt a patient's
flagging immune system into recognizing and destroying leukemic lymphocytes. On
paper, the three-stage therapy worked like this: First, several vials of
leukemia cells would be extracted from a patient's blood.

   Called leukapheresis, the process involves two intravenous needles, one
inserted into each arm.

   From one needle, blood is extracted into a freezer-size machine that sorts
out the various components of the blood according to their density and weight.

   Lymphocytes, which are less dense than iron-bearing red blood cells, are
withdrawn and the rest of the blood is returned to the patient via the other
needle. Next, the extracted malignant lymphocytes are purposefully infected with
an adenovirus -- a large family of viruses that typically afflict the
respiratory tract.

   Viruses are used because they are, by nature, superb infiltrators of cells.

   The adenovirus used by Kipps -- a disarmed, non-reproductive cold virus --
would be previously modified to contain a normal human gene that directs
lymphocytes to produce CD40-ligand, a protein molecule whose job is to activate
the immune system. Finally, lymphocytes bearing these inserted protein
molecules, the latter now identified as Ad-CD40-L, would be re-injected into
each CLL patient. Theoretically, they would behave like tiny alarm bells,
arousing the patient's slumbering immune system to destroy not just the modified
cells, but other similar-looking leukemia cells. The plan "works wonderfully in
vitro," said Charles Prussak, chief executive officer of Molecular Medicine, a
limited liability corporation formed by UCSD and BMC to pursue the effort.

   "The question is, how does it work in humans.

   That's the black box." The trial begins April 29, 1998: After hearing of
Kipps' experimental treatment from his doctor, Rosenthal eagerly volunteered for
the first clinical trial.

   He was the third patient to qualify, one of a select group of 10 patients,
nearly all of them San Diegans. "Maybe I can be a pioneer," Rosenthal said
enthusiastically.

   "Maybe I can be one of the people who helps find a cure.

   That would be a good thing." On a bright morning in spring, Rosenthal arrived
at UCSD Medical Center in Hillcrest to have his blood drawn.

   He was upbeat, but also anxious, his anxiety arising in part from the
numerous documents he was obligated to sign -- consent forms confirming his
decision to "act as a research subject," a human guinea pig. Here, in black and
white, Kipps and others have described in detail what the experimental therapy
would involve and its attendant risks, among them pain and discomfort from
needle injections, potential infections, major blood loss, the possibility of an
air bubble entering the vein if plastic tubing breaks in the pheresis machine
and changes in the mineral content of his blood that could result in
insignificant muscle twitching, or severe muscle contractions or heart block,
either of which could prove fatal. There was more: High concentrations of
adenovirus in Rosenthal's blood, the consent form warned, could cause
inflammation of both the lungs and the liver, leading to possibly
life-threatening cases of pneumonia or hepatitis.

   It was possible, too, that the procedure might induce autoimmune disease,
with the body targeting not just leukemia cells but healthy cells, as well. If
any of these things happened, the consent form dryly declared, "the University
of California will provide the medical care needed to correct those injuries.

   The university will not provide any other form of compensation." The doctors
reassured Rosenthal nothing untoward was likely to happen.

   The experimental therapy had been rigorously studied, albeit in the
laboratory. Safeguards were in place, precautions taken. Still, there was cause
to pause. "The doctors said they had to list every possibility," Rosenthal said.

   "I wouldn't say I was frightened, but I was concerned.

   I mean, you do what you have to do.

   This is where all of my work with fear seminars came in.

   It was my business to teach people how to overcome their fears.

   In seminars, I'd lean into arrows pressed against my throat to show them they
could get past that fear.

   If I couldn't do this, I wouldn't be showing the right spirit.

   I wouldn't be walking the walk." Besides, he figured, what choice did he
have?

   His white blood cell count was now hovering at approximately 70,000. A
normal, healthy count is less than 10,000, typically much less.

   Rosenthal wasn't getting better.

   He was getting worse. Nurses explained the leukapheresis process again, then
directed the 5-foot-11, 222-pound Rosenthal into a large easy chair.

   His arms were strapped down, an electric warming pad placed atop the left arm
to encourage blood flow for the extraction. "This isn't so bad," Rosenthal
joked.

   "The worst part is not being able to move my arms.

   I can't read." A few hours later, the process was finished.

   Rosenthal headed home -- minus hundreds of thousands of lymphocytes and some
blood plasma.

   The lymphocytes were rushed to Molecular Diagnostics and Therapeutics Service
Center, a high-tech laboratory on the UCSD campus where they would be sorted,
tested and treated with the modified adenovirus under ultra-sterile conditions.
May 13: Rosenthal returned to UCSD Medical Center to receive his injection of
modified lymphocytes.

   This was it, he hoped, the beginning of a cure. But it didn't happen.

   At the last moment, questions arose about the possibility Rosenthal's blood
might have been exposed to contaminants during leukapheresis.

   The danger was theoretical and probably nonexistent, but Kipps ordered the
re-injection postponed and a new leukapheresis conducted. "You're dealing with
real people here and you want things to go well," Kipps said later.

   "You don't want anything coming into the mix that you don't know about.

   You don't want to risk anything but the risk of the unknown." On the plus
side, Rosenthal noted, the first leukapheresis had temporarily halved his white
blood cell count, from 80,000-plus to 44,000. A second lymphocyte extraction
would likely do the same. June 2: Back again at the UCSD Medical Center for a
second try at re-injection.

   Rosenthal brought pajamas (he'd seen the hospital gowns) and a handful of
books, since the therapy required him to stay overnight at the hospital for
observation and additional blood tests.

   The re-injection of his now-genetically modified cells, when it happened, was
almost anticlimactic.

   Kipps squirted 20 milliliters of liquid bearing the modified cells into an IV
tube attached to Rosenthal's arm.

   The whole thing was over in less than three minutes. "This is a step for
mankind."

   Rosenthal laughed.

   "No, really, in a sense I really mean that.

   The more I talk about this, the more I hope it works, for other's sakes too.

   And needless to say, I hope Dr. Kipps wins a Nobel Prize." Should that ever
happen, however, the path will not have been easy.

   Hours after the re-injection, Rosenthal began running a fever of 104 degrees
-- a dangerously high temperature for an adult.

   He became severely nauseated. "It felt like I had malaria.

   I would get so cold that I'd have seven blankets on top of me, then I'd get
hot and sweaty and toss them off.

   For four days, I couldn't sleep.

   At one point, I thought I was checking out." After nearly a week of
hospitalization, however, Rosenthal's temperature had dropped, his energy level
had returned to normal.

   "I was strong and I think that helped," he said.

   "Maybe if I had been older or weaker . . . well, I don't know." "Mr.
Rosenthal's reaction was not unexpected.

   We thought we would see some flu-like symptoms," said Kipps.

   "He did react, however, much more strongly to the therapy than others.

   That suggests his immune system was responding to the treatment, because it's
typically your immune response that makes you feel ill, not the disease."
Waiting and watching In the first weeks after Rosenthal's re-injection, the CLL
gene therapy seemed to work like a charm.

   Rosenthal's white blood cell count fell to just 11,000 -- close to normal.

   Other patients in the trial exhibited similar results. "We saw a fairly
dramatic fall in all of the patients," said Kipps. But the lowered cell count
proved transient, with subsequent blood tests marking a slow but steady rise in
Rosenthal's white cell count.

   Five months after receiving the modified cells, Rosenthal's lymphocyte count
now hovers at approximately 36,000. With the realization that a single dose of
modified lymphocytes does not produce lasting benefits, Kipps and colleagues are
preparing to launch a new, revised protocol. "I think we've seen encouraging
results," Kipps said.

   "In a Phase 1 trial, one of the big questions always asked is how much drug
do you need to use? How much can we use before there are toxicities (adverse
effects)? Here, we didn't observe any dose-limiting toxicities. "Plus, you have
to remember that in this phase, we were treating patients with fairly large
amounts of the disease, exposing them to limited amounts of modified cells.

   It was a bit like sending in a band of commandos against an army.

   They were outnumbered by a wide margin. "But we saw that even then, there was
a positive effect, that the number of leukemia cells declined without having to
use additional drugs.

   This is important because many of current cancer drugs have a negative impact
on the immune system.

   Like robbing Peter to pay Paul, they treat the leukemia but hurt the overall
immune response." Indeed, Rosenthal's rising white blood cell count is not
entirely bad news. Twenty percent of the 36,000-count total are vital,
infection-fighting T-cells, which Rosenthal's blood had seriously lacked just
one year before. Kipps is currently developing the protocol for a second-phase
clinical trial, this one to perhaps be expanded nationally and involve 40
patients. These Phase 2 trials would begin next year. "What would happen if we
give repeated doses?"

   Kipps asked.

   "We've seen that the therapy is reasonably well-tolerated, that there are
signs the immune system is actually bolstered. "The idea in Phase 2 is to
explore the effect and timing of successive doses.

   It may be that successful treatment is analogous to vaccines.

   For things like tetanus or hepatitis, you get the initial vaccine, then
occasional booster shots.

   Maybe it's necessary here to marshal the immune response and build it up.

   Then perhaps it can eradicate the disease altogether." For patients such as
Rosenthal, who had harbored grand hopes of a quick, decisive cure, this is good,
but not great news.

   "Here I thought I was going to hit a home run and now I find out it's just a
single," Rosenthal said, shrugging, a faint smile on his face. On the other
hand, he figured, a single is better than striking out. Rosenthal and the other
nine patients will not be part of the Phase 2 testing, which for methodological
reasons requires an entirely new batch of patients.

   But Kipps has arranged for Rosenthal and the others, who have all shown
varying degrees of improved health, to extend their treatment with additional
doses of modified cells. So Rosenthal figures he's still in the game. "Maybe
I'll end up having to get regular injections for the rest of my life, but that
wouldn't be so terrible," he said.

   "It would mean at least I was alive."

GRAPHIC: 2 PICS; 4 DIAGRAMS; 1 CHART; CAPTIONS: 1. Can-do spirit: In the 1970s,
A.J. Rosenthal was a fitness guru promoting his own line of exercise products.
Diagnosed with leukemia two years ago, he's hoping involvement in experimental
gene therapy will work out. 2. Gene therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia 3.
Big moment: UCSD immunologist Thomas Kipps prepares to inject genetically
modified white blood cells back into leukemia patient A.J. Rosenthal. (E-4) 4. A
primer on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (E-4); PHOTOBY: 1. HOWARD LIPIN /
Union-Tribune 2. SOURCE: UCSD | MARK NOWLIN / Union-Tribune 3. JERRY RIFE /
Union-Tribune

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1736 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      NOVEMBER 24, 1998 Tuesday SF EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS NEWS IN BRIEF

BODY:

   IN THE REGION AT&T FINE IS PROPOSED IN "SLAMMING" CASE A state utility
commission judge has recommended fining AT&T Corp. $20,000 for changing a
Philadelphia couple's long-distance service multiple times using forged
signatures. If the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approves the fine, it
would be the PUC's first against a long-distance company for slamming. "This
could set a significant precedent," said state Consumer Advocate Irwin A.
Popowsky, who argued the case against AT&T for Harriet and Jeremy Gaige.

   Jim Ginty, president of AT&T's Pennsylvania operations, said the company
deserved a better decision given its track record: "We're clearly disappointed."

   But Harriet Gaige said AT&T should have been fined far more. The Gaiges had
requested a $10 million fine. "A $10 million fine would send a message and
prevent slamming in the future," she said.

   HALT IN PAYMENTS TO 2 ALLEGHENY RETIREES SOUGHT * Lawyers representing
creditors in the Allegheny health system bankruptcy asked the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Pittsburgh to suspend distribution of retirement payments scheduled to
be paid Dec. 1 to two fired executives of the system. In court papers filed
yesterday, the attorneys argued that former general counsel Nancy Wynstra should
not receive $323,497 and former chief financial officer David McConnell should
not receive $172,824 because the creditors have "substantial grounds" for
potential claims against them. A hearing on the matter is scheduled for
tomorrow.

   C&D TO ACQUIRE JOHNSON CONTROLS BATTERY UNIT * C&D Technologies Inc., Blue
Bell, said yesterday that it agreed to acquire Johnson Controls Inc.'s
Industrial Battery unit for $135 million in cash and assumed debt. C&D, with
annual sales of $308 million, produces electrical-power storage and conversion
products used in telecommunications, office equipment and industrial vehicles.
Johnson Controls' Industrial Battery unit, with annual sales of more than $87
million, produces and markets industrial batteries for the uninterruptible power
supply, telecommunications and broadband cable markets. The deal is expected to
close early next year.

   MENLEY & JAMES SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE SALE Shareholders of Menley & James Inc.,
Horsham, approved the sale of its drug and toiletry business to Numark
Laboratories, Edison, N.J., for $13 million. Menley & James said it does not
plan to liquidate or disburse its remaining assets - primarily $13 million in
cash and $30 million in tax-loss carryforwards - to shareholders. It said it is
looking for a merger partner.

   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE DRIVE ADDS 250 MEMBERS * The Greater Philadelphia Chamber
of Commerce said its 1998 On the Move campaign brought in 250 members and more
than $1 million, which includes $800,000 in cash. The chamber did not set a
membership goal this year, but its financial results exceeded its goal of
$650,000. Last year, the campaign added 230 members and raised $573,652.

   RHONE-POULENC RORER EXPANDS GENE-TEST ACCORD Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc.,
Collegeville, and Gene Logic Inc. announced the expansion of a collaboration
under which Gene Logic is analyzing genes for gene-therapy clinical trials
sponsored by Rhone-Poulenc Rorer's RPR Gencell division. Last year, RPR entered
into a collaborative agreement with Oncormed Inc., which was acquired by Gene
Logic last month. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed.

   ACRODYNE TO GET $7.1 MILLION FROM SINCLAIR * Acrodyne Communications Inc.,
Blue Bell, reached a definitive agreement with Sinclair Broadcasting Group Inc.
Sinclair will invest about $7.1 million in Acrodyne in exchange for nearly 32
percent of Acrodyne's common stock and the right to nominate members of
Acrodyne's board of directors and senior management.

   ELSEWHERE LONG-DISTANCE FIRMS OPPOSE BELL-GTE MERGER * The top three U.S.
long-distance telephone companies and one of the country's leading consumer
groups announced their opposition to Bell Atlantic Corp.'s proposed $82.2
billion purchase of GTE Corp. They said the merger would stifle competition in
local phone markets. AT&T Corp., MCI WorldCom and Sprint Corp., as well as
Consumers Union, were among the companies and organizations filing documents
with federal regulators opposing the acquisition. Pennsylvania is one of the
markets that would be affected if Bell Atlantic and GTE merge, because both
companies have operations in the state and would likely one day compete for
local and long-distance service.

   TWO MAJOR DISABILITY INSURERS PLAN A MERGER * Unum Corp. is buying Provident
Cos. Inc. for stock worth nearly $5 billion to create the dominant company in
disability insurance. Unum and Provident provide disability insurance, but
Unum's focus has been group products and Provident's has been individual
products. Unum and Provident said they expect annual cost savings of about $120
million to $130 million from the merger. The deal, subject to approval by
stockholders and regulators, is expected to be completed by mid-1999.

   YIELDS ARE MIXED IN WEEKLY T-BILL AUCTION * Interest rates on short-term
Treasury securities were mixed in yesterday's auction. The Treasury Department
sold $8 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.45 percent, up from
4.40 percent last week. An additional $8 billion was sold in six-month bills at
a rate of 4.43 percent, the same as last week. The three-month rate was the
highest since Nov. 9, when the bills sold for 4.47 percent. The new discount
rates understate the actual return to investors - 4.56 percent for three-month
bills, with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,888.80, and 4.59 percent for a
six-month bill selling for $9,777.30.

   YIELD ON ONE-YEAR T-BILLS UP SLIGHTLY IN WEEK * The Federal Reserve said the
average yield for one-year Treasury bills in the secondary market, the most
popular index for making changes in adjustable-rate mortgages, rose to 4.54
percent last week from 4.52 percent the previous week.

   GOODRICH PLANS TO BUY COLTEC INDUSTRIES * BFGoodrich Co. will buy Coltec
Industries in a $2.2 billion deal involving companies that make specialty
chemicals, aerospace equipment and industrial products. Directors of both
companies have approved the deal. The merged operation will save about $60
million by 2001, the companies said. The deal is expected to be completed by
next spring.

   US AIRWAYS PLANS $500 MILLION STOCK BUYBACK * The board of directors of US
Airways Group Inc. authorized the buyback of up to $500 million of the company's
common stock. The company will start this repurchase after it has completed
stock purchases authorized earlier this year.

   U.S. SEEKS TO END ITS CASE AGAINST JOE CAMEL * Attorneys for the Federal
Trade Commission said they would seek to dismiss the government's case against
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco over its Joe Camel advertising campaign, after tobacco
companies reached a $206 billion settlement with 46 states. "The state
settlement provides for all of the relief that we are seeking in this case and
satisfies all of the objectives that we had in bringing this case," FTC attorney
Joel Winston said.

   CDNOW JOINS A NEW ONLINE RETAIL NETWORK * Nine leading specialty online
retailers, including Jenkintown's CDNow Inc., said they formed a network linking
each online store to reach a combined audience of seven million to eight
million. The shopping network, dubbed ShopperConnection, also includes toy store
eToys, brokerage Datek Online, garden-equipment site Garden.com, movie seller
Reel.com Inc., and wine and gift-shop Virtual Vineyards. Bob Saltzman, CDnow's
vice president of strategic development, said the customer will first log onto a
favorite retail Web site and be given a chance to link to others only after
making a purchase.

   IF YOU'RE MISSING A TAX REFUND, IRS WANTS YOU * The Internal Revenue Service
is looking for 99,042 taxpayers whose 1997 refund checks never reached them. The
checks, totaling more than $68 million, were returned by the U.S. Postal Service
because of incorrect names, bad addresses, or because a taxpayer had moved
without providing a new address. Taxpayers who believe they are due a refund
from 1997 and never got it should call the IRS at 1-800-829-1040.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002


                             1737 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   November 24, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 2406 words

HEADLINE: Drug revolution shakes industry

BYLINE: Tim Friend

BODY:

   In an unprecedented shift of resources and research, the nation's
largest pharmaceutical companies are turning their focus toward
the root causes of disease and away from the development of drugs
that treat only its symptoms.

   This shift, which experts say could revolutionize medicine, comes
as a consequence of the most promising and most dispiriting trends
in medicine today: the quickening advances in the sciences, and
the dawning realization that even better versions of traditional
remedies are failing against such diseases as Alzheimer's, heart
disease and cancer.

   Add to this the growing control of drug sales by HMOs, faster
drug approval by the Food and Drug Administration and the push
by pharmaceutical companies to invent the next billion-dollar
blockbuster, and the result is an unprecedented rechanneling of
a $ 124.6 billion industry.

   If the effort is successful, it could usher in an era of personalized
medicine. Drugs tailored to the individual will be more effective,
have fewer side effects and even could stop a disease from progressing.
People who are at risk of inheriting a disease could take a pill
every day to prevent it, the way vitamins are taken now.

   Although serious questions remain about how long it will take
to develop some of these drugs and whether the government will
approve them, there is strong agreement on the part of drug company
officials, doctors and medical researchers that a crossroads has
been reached.

   "The future writers of history will mark this as an important
time," says Donald Palmisano of the American Medical Association
Board of Trustees. "Rather than just treating symptoms, we will
have the opportunity to diagnose before a disease is manifest
and then intervene to prevent the disease from occurring."

   The cost of moving billions of research dollars from one area
to another is that innovation in drugs to treat diseases in their
latest stages for chronically ill and dying patients will
take a back seat to investing in drugs that can prevent and cure
diseases in their earliest stages.

   Experts stress that people who already are sick will continue
to receive the best medicines available. More than 500 new drugs
are in the pipeline today and the FDA is approving drugs at a
faster rate than ever.

   But the new course for most types of drug therapies and chronic
diseases has been set. Pharmaceutical companies are concentrating
on developing a new generation of drugs that strikes diseases
at their genetic and molecular levels, says Peter Ringrose, president
of the Pharmaceutical Research Institute at Bristol-Myers Squibb
in Princeton, N.J.

   "We are trying to develop drugs to prevent or delay disease rather
than just treating symptoms, which is at the end of the disease,"
Ringrose says.

   A good example of this shift can be seen in research for cancer
treatments by Bristol-Myers Squibb, SmithKline Beecham, Pfizer,
Merck and Wyeth-Ayerst -- five of the nation's largest drug companies.

   Industry scientists say they essentially are abandoning the development
of chemotherapies, which tend to blast both healthy and cancerous
cells, in favor of a more targeted strategy. This has been a goal
for decades, but the knowledge and tools to go after it were not
available until recently.

   "Most companies have shifted their focus up front to more targeted,
molecular approaches for the major chronic diseases and to biological
approaches for cancer," says Allen Oliff, executive director
of cancer research at Merck, based in West Point, Pa.

   "We are not doing 'me-too' chemotherapy development" to improve
on existing cancer drugs or treatments, Oliff adds. "We're going
after the blockbuster for cancer."

   "What this really amounts to now is the critical transition in
medicine," adds George Poste, chief science and technology officer
at SmithKline Beecham in Philadelphia. "We're embarking
on a journey now of understanding the mechanisms of disease, and
once you understand those mechanisms, you can make a much more
rational decision about treatment."

   Although the drug companies are reluctant to discuss details,
what they reveal shows the money is following the science.

   This year, the industry will spend $ 21 billion on research and
development, according to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
Association (PhRMA). That's up from $ 8.4 billion in R&D spending
in 1990.

   Patrick Gage, president of Wyeth-Ayerst Research in Radnor, Pa.,
estimates about 40% of the industry's R&D budget now is spent
on developing the new-generation drugs that attack the molecular
and genetic pathways of disease. In 1990, he says, only a tiny
percentage of a company's R&D budget went for drugs based
on a targeted approach.

   "The resources are being reallocated to the new approaches and
to the novel technologies that allow us to get away from the symptom-based
drugs," Gage says.

   At Bristol-Myers Squibb, William Koster, senior vice president
of drug discovery, puts it another way. He estimates that in 1990,
only 10% to 20% of experimental drug compounds were based on a
targeted approach or through genomics -- the study of genes and
their role in disease. Calculations done in 1997 on Bristol-Myers
products found 55% based on genomics.

   And in 1998, Koster says, "it is definitely higher. You can see
this happening very acutely now across the industry."

   Unraveling cancer

   The recent approval of the breast cancer drug Herceptin, developed
by GenenTech, a biotechnology firm based in San Francisco, is
an early example of the type of cancer drug that this shift is
expected to yield over the next five to 10 years.

   Herceptin acts on a specific breast cancer gene, which causes
cells to divide at an accelerated pace. The drug appears to slow
or stop that growth by interfering with the growth signal. Today,
women with breast cancer can be tested for the gene and prescribed
Herceptin if they have the defect.

   Arthur Levinson, president and CEO of Genentech, says the company
waited until two years ago to get into cancer treatments because
it considered investing resources in chemotherapies a waste of
time.

   "We decided to make a big push into oncology because we were
finally starting to understand the molecular basis of cancer,"
Levinson says. "We said it's a tremendous area of unmet need,
there are great scientific opportunities and we said we can become
strong in that area."

   Other drug companies see the opportunity as well. In the last
two to three years, they've shifted an increasing number of resources
away from chemotherapies. Most of the big companies have at least
one new experimental compound in early development, aimed at a
molecular or genetic target in cancer.

   "We are focusing on highly specific anti-cancer drugs that are
directed at the cancer itself," says John Niblack, executive
vice president of research and development at Pfizer in New York.
"We already have a couple of products in development."

   Some experts believe one of the ultimate outcomes of this targeted
approach will be personalized medicine. That means drugs in development
today will be refined for an individual and taken daily to keep
a disease from starting.

   "We should be able to determine for each person genetic risk
factors, and, based on lifestyles, we should be able to almost
individualize the pill you should take every morning," says Harmon
Eyre, executive vice president for research and medical affairs
at the American Cancer Society.

   Scientific breakthroughs

   The evolution toward these targeted approaches came about because
of the convergence of a number of key, independent factors.

   In the past several years, the fields of genetics, robotics and
combinatorial chemistry all have matured at exponential rates
and have been used to develop powerful new tools for drug discovery.

   "There is a constellation of factors that are making this possible,"
Ringrose says. "Changes in the market, the demographics and the
science are all coming together at the same time to create products
that will capture people's attention. The genomic revolution is
opening the last door to our knowledge of the molecular basis
of disease. This will almost certainly translate into new products."

   The transition has its roots in the 1980s, with the birth of the
biotechnology industry and gene discovery.

   "Through genomics, you can understand the underlying molecular
cause of a disease and use that information to develop drugs that
actually treat the cause of the disease," says Peter Meldrum,
CEO of Myriad Genetics in Salt Lake City.

   Although the biotech and genomic explosion initially was watched
at a distance by the pharmaceutical industry, economic and competitive
pressures forced them on board.

   In 1993, SmithKline became the first major company to invest money
in a new gene database.

   The database provided the first library of genes active in tissues
of the body. It quickly led to identification of the first colon
cancer genes, an understanding of how the genes cause disease
and new targets for drug discovery that are being tested today.

   SmithKline's $ 20 million investment ignited competition. Merck
followed with development of its own public gene database.

   The results will start showing up in the next decade, as drugs
now in the pipeline of research and experimentation go first to
clinical trials and then to market.

   In addition to cancer, many other diseases are being targeted.
The drug discovery divisions of the leading pharmaceutical companies
have competing programs to develop new remedies for:

   -- Alzheimer's and age-related memory loss. Gene discoveries
from Alzheimer's patients and key genes involved in normal brain
function are providing many new targets for testing and screening
promising compounds.

   -- Depression. Most drugs today take weeks to show an effect;
efforts are under way to develop drugs that produce results in
days.

   -- Mental disorders, including schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder. Promising compounds have been identified that might
interfere with abnormal brain signals.  * Asthma. Molecular
targets have been found in the immune system that may get to the
root cause of asthma, and compounds are being screened against
these targets.

   -- Cardiovascular disease and stroke. Companies are working
on compounds to treat heart failure by slowing degeneration and
preventing the death of heart muscle cells.

   -- AIDS and other infectious diseases. Labs continue
to explore the mechanisms of HIV and look for vulnerabilities
in the virus that make suitable drug targets. Researchers also
are exploring ways to overcome resistance of bacteria to antibiotics
that are used to treat potentially fatal infections, such as pneumonia.

   -- Age-related conditions. For the first time, compounds are
in development designed to prevent age-related loss of vision
and memory, boost muscle mass and improve on inhibitors for arthritis.

   -- Sexual dysfunction. Many companies are working furiously to
develop safer versions of Viagra for men and "bride of Viagra"
for women.

   Influence of managed care

   Beyond science, no factor has convinced drug companies to invest
heavily in R&D as much as the rise of managed care.

   Until the last several years, drug companies were content to reap
respectable profits by mimicking competitors' drugs. These so-called
"me-too" drugs primarily were new generations of existing medicines
that reduced side effects or improved effectiveness, says Richard
Van Den Broek, an analyst with Hambrecht & Quist, an investment
bank.

   Managed care changed that in the early 1990s by gaining control
of drug sales to consumers and deciding which drugs they would
cover in their insurance plans -- usually the cheapest of similar
me-too brands. The other me-toos were out of luck.

   Today, HMOs control 60% of drug sales to consumers. PhRMA predicts
HMOs will control 90% of drug sales in the next five to seven
years.

   To compete, companies now have to prove to HMOs that their new
drugs are the most effective and represent genuine breakthroughs.

   "The managed care influence killed the incentive for me-too drugs,"
PhRMA spokesman Jeff Trewhitt says. "That meant pharmaceutical
companies were no longer assured profits by developing new drugs
that merely improved on ones already on the market. Now the only
way to make a profit and get managed care to pay is to have the
first and only in its class."

   Analyst Hemet Shah of HKS & Co., an industry research firm,
agrees.

   "They are definitely cutting back on me-too drugs," says Shah.
"In the past, a $ 100 million to $ 300 million drug would be significant.
Now they're going after breakthrough drugs, not another hypertension
treatment. It's happening across the board. But it's risky. It's
much easier to develop another hypertension drug than a cure for
cancer."

   There are seven drugs on the market today that exceed $ 2 billion
in annual sales, and 27 that exceed $ 1 billion -- blockbuster
status.

   The first billion-dollar drug in history was Bristol-Myers' Taxol,
an anti-cancer agent that is more cell-specific than chemotherapies.

   "We are finally going to find out in the next several years whether
the huge investment will pay off," says Merck's Oliff. "If the
answer is yes, then I think you will see the flood gates open
up and then you may very well see a 'penicillin' for cancer."

   Raymond Woosley of Georgetown University, an adviser to the FDA
and an expert on how drugs are metabolized in the body, believes
the shift in focus will lead to a new era in drug discovery.

   But he and others caution that this revolution will take longer
than many people believe.

   "The personalized medicine the pharmaceutical industry is moving
toward is definitely going to come, but it's not going to be as
simple as we all hope," Woosley says. "We talked about the cure
for cancer for decades and we talked about gene therapy five years
ago -- how it was going to be the cure of all diseases.

   "But the human body is so complex, there is no quick fix for
these problems. No matter how exciting the technology is, it will
still take a long time and a huge investment."

   Contributing: Doug Levy

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, color, Bristol-Myers Squibb(2); PHOTO, color, Eileen Blass, USA
TODAY; Advances in medicine: Using three dimensional computer technology, a team
of scientists from Bristol-Myers Squibb works in the 3-D Visualization Room to
examine how a chemical compound reacts against a disease target. If the compound
appears effective, it could be put into the company's drug development pipeline.
Such technology has helped speed research into a new generation of drugs.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998


                             1738 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                     November 23, 1998 Monday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: HEALTH & FITNESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: GROWING BLOOD VESSELS;
TRIALS ARE STEPPED UP FOR EXPERIMENTAL HEART THERAPY

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. KNOX; BOSTON GLOBE

BODY:

   The human heart always strives to survive. When gunk and scars clog its
arteries due to a too-rich diet, insufficient exercise or unlucky genes, it
responds valiantly by sprouting new vessels that bring in blood from nearby
unclogged arteries.

   But eventually these new "collateral" vessels can no longer compensate for
atherosclerosis. That's when the oxygen-starved heart muscle sends the ominous
pain signals called angina that often foretell a heart attack.

   That's what happened to Phillip Fletcher, a 48-year-old Kansas businessman.
"I was a runner, and back in 1990 I was having trouble completing 10-kilometer
races," Fletcher says. Despite coronary bypass surgery, his angina progressed to
the point that his wife has to carry his luggage through airports.

   For patients like Fletcher, specialists have long thought it would be great
if they could stimulate and amplify the growth of new coronary blood vessels.

   It is beginning to appear that they can. Fletcher recently became the 17th
patient to undergo experimental vessel-growing therapy in a high-visibility
trial at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston. Encouraging results from this
and other early experiments in the United States and Europe are spurring a rash
of large-scale, controlled trials that will enroll hundreds of cardiac patients
over the coming year.

   "I would say skepticism is lessening," says Dr. Stephen G. Ellis of Ohio
State University. "There are a lot of thoroughly positive-looking results,
although no one study is definitive."

   Ellis estimates that 75,000 to 300,000 U.S. patients could benefit from a
therapy to grow new coronary vessels because they have clogged arteries that
cannot be bypassed surgically or opened with angioplasty. Eventually it could be
used in conjunction with bypass surgery or angioplasty, or even replace these
procedures for some patients.

   Some of the recent trials, like the one Fletcher is in, involve injecting
genes into heart muscle or coronary arteries in the hope that this will induce
heart cells to secrete a blood vessel growth factor. Others involve injecting
the protein growth factors themselves, rather than genes for them.

   Using lasers

   Another controversial strategy first tried in the 1980s - using lasers to
drill channels through the heart wall - is enjoying a modest resurgence because
of evidence that it may not work by directly bringing blood to starved muscle
but by inducing the growth of new vessels.

   "The next wave of studies" on the laser procedure, called transmyocardial
revascularization, "is to use these channels as repositories of blood vessel
growth factors or genes," says Dr. Steven N. Oesterle of Massachusetts General
Hospital.

   A wide variety of large-scale human experiments in angiogenesis, as this
blood vessel growth is called, are just getting under way.

   "The whole area is moving very fast," says Dr. Michael Simons, director of
angiogenesis research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. "I
think it's not an issue of whether these things will work, but whom to give them
to and how, what is the best agent - there will probably be more than one - and
what side effects there are."

   Success in legs

   Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner of St. Elizabeth's runs the human experiments that have
received the most attention so far. This is partly due to a widely reported
study Isner unveiled a year ago showing success in growing new blood vessels in
patients with painfully clogged leg arteries. It also has something to do with
the fact that Isner is not shy about his belief that angiogenesis works.

   Of approximately 70 patients with leg arteries so obstructed that they
couldn't walk, had severe pain at rest or had persistent leg ulcers that often
lead to amputation, Isner claims 75 percent had "total relief of rest pain or
healing of ulcers" following injections of the gene for a blood-vessel growth
promoter called VEGF (for vascular endothelial growth factor).

   Beginning last February, Isner and his colleagues have injected the VEGF gene
into the heart muscle of 17 patients with disabling angina pain who were beyond
help from conventional bypass surgery or angioplasty. Surgeons make a small
incision in the chest of patients to make four injections of fluid containing
"naked" DNA (without an attached virus) that directs cells to make the VEGF
growth factor protein.

   Of the 11 cardiac patients Isner has followed for at least three months, six
are now free of angina, he says. Only one of the 11 did not have significant
lessening of angina.

   Indirect evidence

   The evidence that the VEGF gene therapy actually grows new coronary blood
vessels is still indirect, because the new vessels are too tiny to show up on
standard studies called angiograms, in which cardiologists inject dye into
coronary arteries to trace blood flow.

   Nevertheless, Isner believes they are big enough, and plentiful enough, to
rescue oxygen-starved tissue and banish, or significantly lessen, angina pain.

   Isner says that dramatic before-and-after improvement is not unusual among
his cardiac gene therapy patients. "When you see that magnitude of improvement,
it's very difficult to imagine this could be a placebo effect," he says.

   Others, even those who are enthusiastic about the prospects for angiogenic
therapy, disagree. "As a cardiologist I know all too well the kinds of influence
psychological factors have on patients who believe they're getting a therapy
that works," says Dr. H. Kirk Hammond of the University of California at San
Diego, who is running a controlled trial of FGF (fibroblast growth factor) gene
therapy.

   "I acknowledge that until we can do controlled trials, the critics are
entitled to their day," Isner counters. Those studies are beginning, and soon
researchers expect to use new catheters to inject genes or growth factors,
eliminating the need for surgery. Most experts expect more definitive answers
about coronary angiogenesis within the next year or so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (COLOR) BY: BOSTON GLOBE; Dr. Jeffrey Isner checks the condition
of Phillip Fletcher of Wichita, Kan. Fletcher is a patient in experimental
vessel-growing therapy in a trial in Boston.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998


                             1739 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

               November 22, 1998, Sunday, Ventura County Edition

SECTION: Metro; Part B; Page 1; Zones Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

SERIES: BIRTH OF A UNIVERSITY.  Countdown to a Cal State campus . One in an
occasional series

HEADLINE: VENTURA COUNTY NEWS;
 BIOTECH PROGRAM AT MOORPARK TO GRADUATE TO ROOMIER CSU CAMPUS

BYLINE: FRED ALVAREZ, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Slipping into their white lab coats, students in Moorpark College's
biotechnology program can cut up DNA or redesign the properties of a cell.

   They can tap the knowledge of industry giants at Amgen Inc. and Baxter
Healthcare Corp., both of which regularly supply high-tech equipment and guest
lecturers to the program.

   But what they could really use is a little more elbow room.

   Through a partnership with the biotechnology powerhouses and the Cal State
University system, the Moorpark program will move in January from its single
cramped classroom to the developing Cal State Channel Islands campus.

   The program will be housed in a former surgical unit at the old Camarillo
State Hospital complex.

   Because the first phase of the university is not scheduled to open until next
fall, Moorpark students will be the first to take courses on the campus.

   "I think it's going to be awesome," said Cindy Wallace, 44, of Thousand Oaks,
who returned to college after a 17-year hiatus with the hope of breaking into
the county's booming biotechnology industry.

   "Having the biology and chemistry behind me, I figured it wasn't a big jump
to go into that industry," said Wallace, who holds a bachelor's degree in those
subjects from a New York university. "Nowhere can you go to two years of
community college and get training like this."

   Indeed, the program, which was designed with help from Baxter and Amgen to
train future biotech workers, is one of fewer than two dozen offered statewide
through the community college system.

   For Cal State officials, the biotechnology program represents the first
concrete step toward putting into action the public-private partnership
envisioned as a way to finance construction of the new campus.

   "It's a marvelous learning opportunity and a great opportunity for us to get
in on the ground floor in terms of the biotechnology industry in this region,"
said Barbara Thorpe, who is in charge of academic planning for Cal State Channel
Islands.

   "We're going to have quite a bit of space devoted to these kinds of
relationships, so I hope we could look forward to seeing more of them in the
near future."

   Launched last fall, Moorpark's program is the second offered through the
Ventura County Community College District focusing on biotechnology, a rapidly
growing field that melds biology and technology to engineer everything from oil
spill-eating bacteria to blood-clotting drugs.

   Ventura College, in partnership with Amgen, began a similar program in 1993.
That program has already placed dozens of workers with biotechnology companies.

   Last year, Ventura's program earned the Chancellor's Award, the state's
highest honor for community colleges and companies engaged in innovative
partnerships.

   Moorpark College took the program to the next level. Unlike the Ventura
program, Moorpark College concentrates on the actual manufacturing of
biotechnology products, as opposed to solely classroom-based education.

   It teamed with Thousand Oaks-based Baxter and Amgen to develop a curriculum
providing a broad biotechnology education while expanding the industry's
applicant pool.

   "Amgen hires people with all different levels of experience and education and
I think what this program helps to do is bridge the gap," said Bob Bettis, a
project manager for Amgen. "This will add another dimension of education,
somewhere between a high school diploma and a four-year degree, by providing
students with practical, hands-on experience."

   The 10 Moorpark students will do all their course work next semester--four
days a week, four hours a day--in an expansive laboratory being created at the
Channel Islands campus.

   Cal State officials are leasing out the 8,000-square-foot space at a cut
rate, only charging the college district for utilities over the next three
years.

   In return, the college district is picking up the tab for renovations. Last
week district trustees voted to accept laboratory equipment donated by Baxter
and Amgen. It will be installed in coming months in the laboratory at the
Camarillo campus.

   While the program is designed to provide at least entry-level employees to
local biotechnology companies, officials said students will learn skills they
can use to pursue advanced degrees or transfer to a variety of other jobs.

   And setting up shop at the university will allow instructors to use equipment
and run experiments they might not have the space for at Moorpark, educators
say.

   "We're taking advantage of the opportunity that has been afforded us to do it
better," said instructor Maureen Harrigan, a molecular biologist hired two years
ago to launch the Moorpark program. "While our program focuses on manufacturing,
it will train students to enter a variety of areas within the biotechnology
industry."

   In fact, students enrolled in the program have a wide range of experience and
goals.

   Oak Park resident Kiana Akbaroff, 29, has a master's degree in biochemistry
from a university in France and hopes the program will help her get a foot in
the door at one of the big biotechnology firms.

   She ultimately wants to use her degree to do research and development, but
she isn't choosy.

   "This is what I've always wanted to do," she said of working in the
biotechnology industry. "As long as I get in there, I'll be happy doing
whatever."

   Simi Valley resident Jansen Wendlandt said he hopes the course will propel
him into a good microbiology program at a University of California campus. The
1997 Simi Valley High School graduate plans to pursue a master's degree before
going to work.

   "I've always liked the possibility of being able to help people through
vaccines or gene therapy," he said. "The possibilities are practically endless."

   For Cindy Wallace, those possibilities are grounded in practical
applications. She and her husband split up two years ago, leaving her to raise
their three children. After 17 years, most of it as a stay-at-home mom, she said
she was forced to dust off her resume and plunge into the job market.

   She read a newspaper article on the Moorpark College program and decided to
give it a shot.

   "My goal is definitely research and development, but I don't quite know where
I'll end up," she said. "The good thing about this industry is that it changes
constantly and it's interesting enough that you don't get easily bored."

   About This Series

   "Birth of a University: Countdown to a Cal State campus," is an occasional
series chronicling the development of a four-year college at the former
Camarillo State Hospital complex. This installment focuses on a partnership that
will bring the Moorpark College biotechnology program to the new campus next
fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In foreground, Kiana Akbaroff, left, and Cindy Wallace work on
egg protein analysis in Moorpark College biotechnology program.  PHOTOGRAPHER:
MEL MELCON / Los Angeles Times PHOTO: Matt Jeng, 23, measures protein during a
lab test at Moorpark College.  PHOTOGRAPHER: MEL MELCON / Los Angeles Times
PHOTO: Barbara Thorpe of local CSU campus with equipment that will serve
Moorpark College biotech students.  PHOTOGRAPHER: MEL MELCON / Los Angeles Times
PHOTO: Matt Jeng, 23, measures protein during a lab test at Moorpark College.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998


                             1740 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                    November 22, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Sources of financing dry up for companies; Fears of bankruptcy,
tougher sells heard; Biotechnology

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   These are heady days for scientists at biotechnology companies as they take
part in what many see as a remarkable revolution in our understanding of disease
and efforts to develop treatments for scourges like cancer and spinal cord
injuries.

   But for the executives charged with running many of these ventures, these are
days of fret and worry: As their companies burn up cash, traditional sources of
financing such as venture capital and the stock market have gone bone dry.

   "It's really dismal," said Robert Curtis, chief executive officer of
Baltimore-based Lion Pharmaceuticals Inc. The company was born two years ago as
the nation's first biotech venture focused on commercializing discoveries at a
major university, in this case the Johns Hopkins University's School of
Medicine.

   The money situation for the industry might be the worst in a decade, say
company executives and industry experts. The resulting fallout seems destined to
substantially alter the industry landscape. Some experts fear bankruptcy and
wholesale consolidation; others see only a much tougher sell.

   Still, alarm bells are ringing in struggling biotechnology companies from
Maryland to California, say experts.

   Burrill & Co., a San Francisco-based merchant bank active in the life
sciences industry, says investments in biotechnology have slumped severely this
year, particularly in the third quarter -- down 88 percent from the same period
last year.

   Curtis and Lion, for example, spent the better part of the year fruitlessly
shopping for up to $ 15 million in a second round of financing after landing $
2.3 million in start-up money from the city, state and Anthem Capital LLP, a
Baltimore venture capital group, in 1996.

   As a result, Curtis has focused on restructering Lion to make it more
attractive. But instead of again targeting Wall Street deal-makers and venture
capitalists, he expects to raise money in the "angel" market of well-heeled
individual investors -- or possibly big pension funds and other money managers
looking for an investment with a big payoff potential.

   Public sector

   The public sector, as Maryland companies that have planned initial or
secondary offerings have found out, has been hit hardest.

   For the most recent quarter, the nation's public companies raised $ 242
million compared with $ 2.2 billion in the same quarter last year, according to
G. Steven Burrill, founder and chief executive officer of Burrill & Co.

   "The equity financing window for biotechnology is essentially shut down,"
said Burrill.

   "It's a pretty barren landscape out there for now. There's very little money
available, and that is having a dramatic effect on the industry."

   The downturn comes as venture capital funds are flush with cash to invest. In
the third quarter of this year venture capital funds invested a record $ 3.77
billion in emerging companies, up 29 percent from the same period a year ago,
according to PriceWaterhouseCoopers quarterly Money Tree report.

   Software development and information companies got the lion's share of the
funding, the consulting outfit found.

   One key reason for the shift is that venture outfits are finding they can
fund a start-up Internet or info-tech company and take it public or otherwise
sell their stakes quickly, in some cases for staggering returns.

   Aside from the increasingly competitive market for technology financing from
the Internet and other high-tech ventures, Burrill lists other reasons for the
downturn. They include recognition by investors that biotechnology companies'
partnerships with big pharmaceutical houses have led in some cases to biotechs
being stripped of their best technology and value; and the high risk of product
failures and marketing delays.

   Also, said Burrill, "Some companies that looked very promising just haven't
done well."

   Wall Street cools

   As a result, he said, "Wall Street has lost the passion it once had for this
industry, and that has affected private investors."

   The difficult market forced two promising Maryland biotechnology companies to
shelve plans to go public. Rockville-based GenVec Inc., which is developing gene
therapy treatments for heart disease, canceled plans for a 2.5 million share
offering to raise $ 27 million in August.

   And Baltimore-based Osiris Therapeutics Inc., which is developing treatments
to regenerate damaged bone and cartilage, canceled a $ 30 million offering.

   The financing market has been particularly tough on already public companies
that are starved for cash.

   For the first nine months of this year, secondary public offerings are down
more than 65 percent, according to the Burrill report, to $ 449 million from $
1.3 billion in the same period last year.

   Mergers sought

   As a result, some of the companies unable to tap the stock market for more
funds have sought mergers with other biotechnology outfits looking to expand
their technology base.

   For example, Gaithersburg-based Oncormed Inc., which provided genetic testing
services for drug studies, agreed to merge with Gene Logic Inc., a Gaithersburg
provider of genomic analysis services, after coming close to running out of cash
this spring.

   Nationwide, other cash-strapped biotechnology companies are agreeing to
mergers. For example, Texas-based Gene Medicine Inc., a gene therapy developer,
recently agreed to be bought by competitor Megabios Inc. of California for $ 39
million.

   Burrill doesn't subscribe to the theory that the tight financing market will
lead to wholesale bankruptcies and fire sales.

   But he sees signs that huge mergers involving multiple companies increasingly
will become a survival strategy, particularly among small and midsized firms.

   "Instead of two companies merging, and in the end you still have just one, I
think we'll see a number of companies getting together so that you'll really
have something," said Burrill.

   But Curtis, at Lion, sees the changed financing atmosphere resulting in rapid
consolidation and start-up ventures being based on new models that address
investor concerns about risk, efficiency and the time required before there are
significant investment returns.

   The most likely models for new businesses, Curtis believes, are university
affiliations like Lion and companies that buy rights to dormant, but almost
fully developed drug candidates.

   Also, he notes, the pharmaceutical industry's drive to generate new products
should bring more alliances with cash-rich drug makers.

   "There is still a lot of interest, I think, in technologies and discoveries
that can be nurtured," said Curtis. "The question everybody's asking is, how
best to pay for it."

   Pub Date: 11/22/98

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, KIM HAIRSTON : SUN STAFF, Outlook: Robert Curtis, chief
executive officer of Baltimore-based Lion Pharmaceuticals Inc., bemoans the lack
of venture capital financing.; GRAPH, BURRILL & CO./SUN STAFF, TOUGH TIMES

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998


                             1741 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



               November 18, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 1; Giving

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: THINGS;
It's One Way to Spend All of Labor Day

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

BODY:


   WHAT: The Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon, which raises money to benefit the
Muscular Dystrophy Association.

 THE BACKGROUND: The first telethon, which was broadcast on one New York
television station in 1966, raised more than $1 million. The program now appears
on nearly 200 stations and a lot of people watch it (or at least part of it;
after all, it runs a good 21 1/2 hours).


   WHAT IT TOOK IN THIS YEAR: A record $51,577,023.

 WHO HAS BEEN ON IT? More to the point, who has not appeared? Just about
everyone has dropped by, from Adams (Edie) to Zmed (Adrian). Guests have
included Woody and Steve Allen, Phil and Judy Collins, Fabio and Fabian and
Harry Connick, both Jr. and Sr., not to mention Yogi Berra, Maria Callas, Dr.
Joyce Brothers, Jackie Gleason, Helen Hayes, Peter Jennings, Ronald Reagan,
Jacqueline Susann, Conway Twitty and, yes, Sigourney Weaver.

 WHO'S HAPPY: Jerry Lewis. "Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!" he exulted this
year. "What more can I say? Today, when we're on the verge of testing gene
therapy in people with muscular dystrophy, viewers worldwide heard our message."


 WHO IS NOT: Irate viewers in Tampa, Fla., and other cities where the telecast
was cut short, lopping off Mr. Lewis singing "You'll Never Walk Alone." One
station manager said a woman called who "waited each year to see Jerry sing and
cry."

 WHO ELSE IS NOT: Some critics say Mr. Lewis is insensitive and creates negative
images of the disabled. "All of us are being tarnished by this appeal," said one
muscular dystrophy sufferer who was quoted in The New York Post. "It's
pity-mongering." In 1993, a group of disabled people demonstrated in Manhattan
against the show, waving signs with slogans like "Exploitation Is Not
Entertaining."

 WHY LEWIS DOES IT: He won't say exactly. It isn't the money -- he isn't paid.
One theory, which was reported in The Buffalo News, is: He "played a lot of
characters with physical faults in movies. He wants to apologize to those people
he has offended."

 WEB SITE? Of course. It is www.mdausa.
org/telethon.
   HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Lewis, whose rendition of "You'll Never Walk Alone" is a
telethon staple. (Associated Press)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998


                             1742 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                  November 18, 1998, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. AA-3

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: DISEASE FIGHTER;
RESEARCH CENTER TRIES A NEW STRATEGY TO COMBAT DUCHENNE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY

BYLINE: ANITA SRIKAMESWARAN, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Johnny Huard is a whirlwind of activity, yet he manages to keep the many hats
he wears securely in place.He is an associate professor in molecular genetics
and biochemistry at the University of Pittsburgh. He also holds an associate
professorship in orthopedic surgery, although he is not a surgeon. His third
role is director of the Musculoskeletal Growth and Development Lab in Rangos
Research Center at Children's Hospital.

   All of those titles are related to his ultimate goal. For the past 10 years,
Huard has been searching for ways to treat Duchenne muscular dystrophy, an
inherited and progressive muscle disease of boys that kills by the third decade
of life.

   The French-Canadian came to Pittsburgh in 1994 for training and was asked two
years later to join the staff.

   "I decided to stay here because we have the Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
Research Center - that is the only one in the world," Huard said. "My chance as
a scientist to be a part of a treatment is much better here than in Quebec
City."

   "Even if we have a treatment 60 years from now, if I can be part of it, I
will be so happy," he added.

   Duchenne's is caused by the lack of a protein called dystrophin, which is
necessary for muscle function. Some centers are transplanting normal myoblasts,
or muscle cells, into patients with the hope that it will stave off the ravages
of the disease. Others are planning to inject the gene that makes dystrophin,
attached to a modified version of a common cold virus that does not cause the
sniffles, into patients.

   "The main limitation is the immune response," Huard said. For myoblast
therapy, normal muscle cells are donated by a relative, but they are still
foreign to the patient's immune system and rejection can occur. In gene therapy,
the viral carrier used to insert the dystrophin gene into cells is recognized as
an invader that the immune system tries to fight off.

   Huard and his colleagues are pioneering a new strategy that combines those
ideas. They would take muscle biopsies from the patient to gather muscle cells
and grow them in the lab. Those cells are genetically engineered outside the
body to produce dystrophin, again using a virus to deliver the needed gene into
the cells. The "corrected" cells are injected back into the patient.

   The immune system should recognize the injected cells as being from the
patient, so it will not try to reject them. And because the virus carrier is
used outside the body and not injected, it should not produce the widespread
immune response seen in other gene therapy.

   As Huard will tell you, Duchenne's is a tough disease. Often, more knowledge
about how muscle functions, protects itself and heals is needed to understand
why some therapies don't work as well as hoped.

   Huard had puzzled over the difficulties of getting genes into adult muscle
cells until he read that that muscle has developed its own protections against
viral infections. One of the projects he is working on now is to try to
circumvent those defenses.

   "I realized for the first time in my life that sometimes two years of
research could be saved by two hours of reading in the library," he said.

   Huard's expertise is being applied to a variety of orthopedic problems, and
to sports injuries such as muscle tears and strains.

   "We're probably the leaders in this field," he said. By adding cellular
growth factors to injury sites, the researcher can speed muscle regeneration,
which in turn promotes healing and decreases the formation of scar tissue.

   Only 32 and already a rising star in research, Huard is writing a book to
teach others what he has learned about muscle, gene therapy and its orthopedic
applications, and he reviews research papers for a respected medical journal.
His list of publications takes up 15 of the 28 pages in his resume.

   Rather than resting on his laurels, he keeps high standards for the quality
of work done in his lab and remains exuberant about science. Recently, Huard was
delighted to learn he would soon get more lab space to pursue his research.

   "We have 20 people in the lab now," he said in mile-a-minute, accented
English. "My wife is working with me and we speak French. We had a couple from
Switzerland, and we were all speaking French. We have Japanese, Germans, people
from the Netherlands."

   With a laugh, Huard added: "We said when Americans come into this lab, they
lose their native tongue."

   KIDS EXTRA!

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998


                             1743 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)

                           November 17, 1998, Tuesday

SECTION: EDITORIAL & COMMENT , Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: DESIGNER GENES;
BLOOD VESSELS ARE GROWN IN AILING HEARTS

BODY:


   Because heart disease is the No. 1 killer of Americans, committing a great
deal of research to this field makes sense.

   The search for answers takes many forms. It is known that diet and lifestyle
are important factors in whether a person develops heart disease. That one-third
of Americans are seriously overweight plays a large role. Smoking and lack of
exercise increase a person's risk, too.

   While a person can increase his chances of staying healthy, research goes on
in a number of directions.

   The newest finding is that the insertion of certain genes into the heart can
result in patients growing their own bypasses.

   If further testing, which could take two years, affirms this amazing therapy,
it could help the 250,000 U.S. patients annually who have severe chest pains
that can't be cured with angioplasty or bypass surgery.

   This is the first example of gene therapy being used to correct a human ill.
Several teams of doctors working independently injected into ailing hearts a
protein called vascular endothelial growth factor.

   In some cases, the gene spurred the growth of tiny blood vessels to feed
blood-starved heart muscles.

   In turn, this relieved serious chest pain caused by the weakened heart.

   A doctor described this procedure as trying to ''take damaged adult organs
and return them to youth.'' A sort of Ponce de Leon approach to heart therapy.

   In the past several years, much of the attention on health care has been
whether it is delivered effectively and to how many. These are serious and
important issues.

   But this focus should not obscure the wondrous work done by American
scientists to conquer other diseases.

   Health care in this country is better than anywhere in the world, thanks, in
part, to the pioneering work done by dedicated researchers.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998


                             1744 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                    November 16, 1998, Monday, Home Edition

SECTION: Health; Part S; Page 3; View Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: NEW THERAPY FOR BYPASS PATIENTS;
 TREATMENT: TWO STUDIES CONFIRM THE VIABILITY OF GROWING NEW BLOOD VESSELS IN
THE HEART, A PROCEDURE THAT COULD GREATLY BENEFIT SURGERY PATIENTS.

BYLINE: THOMAS H. MAUGH II, TIMES MEDICAL WRITER

BODY:


   Gene therapy for the heart can stimulate the growth of new blood vessels that
bypass clogged arteries and provide increased blood flow to the organ, two
groups of researchers reported last week.

   The two teams have treated about 30 people with the technique, and most
patients have reported decreased chest pain and improved quality of life
following the therapy, the researchers said at an American Heart Assn. meeting
in Dallas.

   The studies are a follow-up to reports last year that the technique could be
used to provide improved circulation in legs with arteries blocked by clots.

   Experts cautioned that it could be several years before the therapy is used
routinely but speculated that it could eventually help many of the 1 million
Americans who undergo bypass surgery each year. About half of those surgeries
fail within a year when the new arteries also become clogged.

   The two teams took different routes to their treatments. Dr. Jeffrey Isner
and his colleagues at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston made a small slit
in the chest to access the blocked vessels and injected the gene for a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEG-F, which stimulates the
production of new blood vessels.

   Isner's team injected the genes into 16 heart attack victims who suffered
severe chest pain but were too sick for bypass surgery. Of the 11 patients who
have been followed for at least three months, six are entirely free of pain, he
said.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal and his colleagues at Cornell Medical School in New York
City used a modified cold virus to carry the VEG-F gene into 14 patients. They
have concluded that the treatment is safe but have not yet shown that it
increases blood flow.


   *

   A variety of other reports were presented at the Dallas meeting, including
one suggesting that the upcoming holiday season is particularly hazardous for
people at risk of heart problems.

   Dr. Robert Kloner of Good Samaritan Hospital reviewed 220,000 deaths in Los
Angeles from 1985 to 1996 and found that the risk of death from heart disease is
33% higher in winter than in summer.

   The risk begins to increase around Thanksgiving, reaches its peak at New
Year's and then gradually tapers off, with January being the worst month
overall. Previous studies in other parts of the country suggested that this
increase might be due to cold winter weather, but Kloner said that similar
findings in Los Angeles suggest deaths are linked more to the stresses and
overindulgence of the holidays.

   Mornings typically present the highest risk of a heart attack, with Monday
morning being the worst. Previously, researchers associated that risk with the
stress of going back to work.

   But Dr. Michael K. Kruska of Hanusch Hospital in Vienna, Austria, reviewed
more than 1,500 fatal heart attacks in that city and concluded the risk was
highest on Monday morning even for those who are retired. The retirees' risk was
20% to 40% higher on Monday morning.

   Although heart attacks at night are less common, they tend to be more
serious, according to Dr. C. Michael Gibson of Allegheny General Hospital in
Pittsburgh. He studied 1,246 heart attack cases and found that people who
suffered their first heart attack at night were twice as likely to die or have a
second heart attack while in the hospital.

   To stave off such attacks, new studies suggest that people should consume
more oats and nuts and, not surprisingly, should exercise more.

   In a long-term study of female nurses headquartered at Brigham and Women's
Hospital in Boston, researchers found that women who consumed more than 5 ounces
of nuts per week had a 35% lower risk of coronary heart disease than women who
ate less than 1 ounce. Men seemed to benefit in a similar fashion in a study of
male doctors.

   Researchers speculated that the benefits were produced by alpha-linoleic
acid, which is present in high concentrations in nuts and has previously been
linked to a reduced risk of heart disease.

   A team from Harvard Medical School and Tufts University studied 43 men and
women who consumed diets high in oats and compared them to people who ate a
similar diet in which the oats were replaced with wheat.

   Those who ate oats showed a decrease in cholesterol levels of 34 milligrams
per deciliter, compared to a decrease of only 13 mg/dL among those who ate the
wheat diet. The oat eaters also reduced their systolic blood pressure (the top
number) by 7 millimeters of mercury, compared to only 2 mm/Hg among the wheat
eaters.


   *

   Exercise is particularly beneficial to people with congestive heart failure
(CHF), according to a team from the Duke University Medical Center. The hearts
of people with CHF do not pump as well as they should, and victims become
breathless and tired easily. Many doctors do not recommend exercise for fear
that it will further damage heart muscle.

   Dr. David Whellan and his colleagues studied 1,420 CHF patients for four
years. They found that only 8% of those who exercised died, compared to 36% of
those who did not exercise. "That makes exercise as effective as the best drugs
we can offer these patients," Whellan said.

   One drug that is not used routinely to treat CHF patients can actually be
very effective, according to a team from the University of Maryland Medical
Center. The drug is metopropol, a beta-blocker that is generally not used
because it initially makes the heart beat less effectively.

   Dr. Steven S. Gottlieb reported, however, that if the drug is started at low
doses that are increased slowly and carefully, it produces a 35% increase in
survival. Their study of nearly 4,000 patients was stopped three years early
because the drug was so effective.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998


                             1745 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   November 14, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 11C, Maryland Watch

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Human Genome Sciences raises stake in venture

BODY:


   Human Genome Sciences Inc. of Rockville said yesterday that it has increased
its ownership stake in Vascular Genetics Inc. to 33.9 percent from 19.9 percent.

   Publicly held Human Genome, which launched Vascular Genetics last November in
a venture with St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston and two other partners,
said the increased stake resulted from a redistribution of original holdings of
the founding shareholders and a cashless exercise of warrants it held.

   The redistribution was for research and other support services Human Genome
provided Vascular Genetics.

   The other partners in the Rockville venture firm are Cato Holding, a company
in Research Triangle, N.C., that specializes in managing clinical drug trials,
and Dr. Jeffrey Isner, a cardiologist at St. Elizabeth's.

   Isner is a pioneer in the effort to develop gene treatments that grow blood
vessels to alleviate the pain and damage from heart and vascular diseases.

   Vascular Genetics is among a dozen biotechnology ventures attempting to
develop such gene therapies.

   Pub Date: 11/14/98

TYPE: COLUMN

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998


                             1746 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                   November 14, 1998, Saturday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part C; Page 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: CELL RESEARCHER GERON SAYS 3RD-QUARTER LOSS WIDENED;
 EARNINGS: THE COMPANY, WHOSE STOCK HAD SOARED RECENTLY ON NEWS OF A
BREAKTHROUGH, ALSO POSTS A 31% DECLINE IN SALES, ON AN EXPECTED DROP IN FUNDING.

BYLINE: From Times Wire Services

BODY:


   Geron Corp., the biotechnology company whose stock soared a week ago on
reports of a major breakthrough in human cell reproduction, said its losses
widened slightly in the third quarter to $ 2.8 million, or 25 cents a share,
from $ 2 million, or 18 cents, a year ago.

   The Menlo Park, Calif.-based company said its revenue dropped 31.8% to $ 1.5
million, mainly because of an agreed-upon reduction in research funding from
Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co.

   Geron's stock rocketed to $ 19.06 on Nov. 6 after briefly touching an
all-time high of $ 24.50. The surge was sparked by news that the company had
financed university research that had produced "immortal" human cells that could
lead to advances in organ transplants, gene therapy and other fields.

   It was the second significant research announcement of the year from Geron.
In January, the then-relatively unknown company said it had been able to reverse
the aging process in certain cells.

   Geron's shares lost $ 1.44 to close at $ 11.94 on Nasdaq.

   At a Glance

   Other earnings, excluding one-time gains and charges unless noted:

   * Intervisual Books Inc. said it lost $ 293,821, or 6 cents a share, in the
third quarter, contrasted with net income of $ 565,891, or 11 cents, a year ago.
Sales plunged 58.7% to $ 3.59 million from a record $ 8.69 million a year ago.
The Santa Monica-based company said it had anticipated weaker sales because of
the Asian crisis and the strong dollar but did not expect such a strong drop.
Norm Sheinman, IBI's president, said executives were advised to voluntarily
reduce their salaries by 10% and to be ready for another cut if sales and profit
objectives are not met during the first six months of 1999. The company said
that by year's end, it will have instituted a salary and hiring freeze and a
staff reduction of 20%.

   * Montgomery Ward Holding Corp., operator of the nation's seventh-largest
department store chain, said its fiscal third-quarter losses narrowed to $ 462
million from $ 615 million a year ago, as it spent less on restructuring its
business and cut costs. The results included pretax reorganization costs of $ 21
million for the period ended Oct. 3 and $ 582 million a year earlier, according
to a regulatory filing. The results were not audited. The company, which is
operating under U.S. Bankruptcy Court protection, said revenue declined 12% to $
1.02 billion, but sales at stores open at least a year rose 3%.

   * Waste Management Inc., the largest U.S. trash disposal company, said
third-quarter earnings rose 87% to $ 291.3 million, or 49 cents a share, in line
with forecasts, as it realized savings from its merger with USA Waste Services
Inc. Sales rose 2% to $ 3.16 billion. USA Waste Services acquired Waste
Management in July and adopted the Waste Management name. The quarterly results
were restated to reflect the acquisition.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998


                             1747 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1998 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           November 14, 1998 Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Geron's losses grow despite success in lab;
Biotech's backer reduces funding

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

BODY:

   Biotechnology firm Geron Corp., whose stock soared a week ago on reports of a
major breakthrough in human cell reproduction, said its third-quarter losses
widened slightly. The Menlo Park-based company posted a net loss for the three
months ended Sept. 30 of $2.8 million, or 25 cents a share, compared with a loss
of $2 million, or 18 cents a share, a year ago. Geron said its revenue dropped
to $1.5 million from $2.2 million, mainly from an agreed-upon reduction in
research funding from Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd. Geron's stock lost $1 to
$12.375 in Nasdaq trading. The stock had rocketed to $19.06 on Nov. 6 on news
that the company financed university research that had produced "immortal" human
cells that could lead to advances in organ transplants, gene therapy and other
fields. Last week's discovery was the second significant research announcement
of the year from Geron.

   In January, the then-relatively unknown firm said it had been able to reverse
the aging process in certain cells, thereby unlocking a "fountain of youth" for
cells. In local earnings news: Following revisions to earlier reported second-
and third-quarter results, Onsite Energy Corp. reported a net loss for year
ended June 30 of $2.2 million or 16 cents per share, compared with a net loss of
$1.4 million or 13 cents per share during the previous year.

   Revenues for the fiscal year increased to $12.3 million from $9.6 million
during the previous year. The Carlsbad-based energy services company said it had
a net loss in the final quarter of $1.5 million or 9 cents per share, compared
with a net income in the comparable quarter one year earlier of $120,602, or
less than 1 cent per share.

   Revenues in the fourth quarter increased to $3.3 million from $1.7 million
for the last quarter of the previous year. Onsite said it amended second- and
third-quarter results following the discovery of errors during an internal
audit.

   In both quarters, net income of 1 cent per share was adjusted to a net loss
of 3 cents per share. Revenues were also reduced in each quarter by about
$400,000. Ligand Pharmaceuticals of San Diego reported a third-quarter loss of
$46.3 million, or $1.15 a share, including a $30.0 million charge related to the
acquisition of the Massachusetts biotech Seragen. Revenue fell 61 percent to
$3.9 million.

   Without the charge, Ligand would have lost $16.3 million, or 40 cents a
share, compared with a loss a year earlier of $11.6 million, or 35 cents a
share.

   The company said it held $40.8 million in cash as of Sept. 30, down from
$83.2 million at the beginning of the year. Vista Information Solutions reported
a third-quarter loss of $5.3 million, or 49 cents a share, including $4.3
million in restructuring and acquisition charges.

   The San Diego company said revenue grew 42 percent to $3.8 million.
Synbiotics said third-quarter losses grew sixfold to $743,000, or 9 cents a
share, because of increased operating costs.

   Revenue at the San Diego company grew 10 percent to $6.7 million. In other
earnings news: Cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. posted $52 million in profit
in the third quarter, reversing a loss suffered last year. For the quarter that
ended Sept. 30, net income was 9 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $214
million, or 34 cents a share, in the third quarter of 1997. Revenues fell to
$1.5 billion from $1.6 billion. Costs associated with the development of the
digital cable television service are expected to continue to have a short-term
negative impact on the company's financial results, said President Leo J.
Hindery Jr. The third-quarter results reflected a $301 million pretax gain due
to the sale of some cable systems. In the first nine months, TCI reported net
income of $148 million, or 25 cents a share, on revenues of $4.6 billion,
compared with a net loss of $448 million, or 71 cents a share, on revenues of
$4.8 billion.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1748 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                  November 12, 1998, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. E-6, NEWS QUIZ

LENGTH: 263 words

BODY:


   1) What unexpected announcement did House Speaker Newt Gingrich make late
last week?

   2) What surprise was recently waiting for the county public works director at
the county's equipment storage centers?

   3) What happened last Friday at a Jerusalem market that could threaten the
recent peace accord?

   4) What division of H.J. Heinz, known for its frozen potatoes, is moving its
headquarters from Boise, Idaho, to Pittsburgh?

   5) A recent report released by the Surface Transportation Policy Project had
what to say about Pittsburgh area roads?

   6) Where does UPMC Health System plan to build its $ 25 million sports
medicine center?

   7) What new treatment for heart patients may replace traditional bypass
surgery?

   8) What Louisiana Republican hopes to succeed Newt Gingrich as House speaker?

   9) What cartoonist, most famous for his 1939 creation "Batman," died last
week at the age of 83?

10) What department store recently celebrated its grand opening at its new
Downtown site?

   Answers:

   1) He would not seek re-election as speaker and would leave Congress when his
term expires in January.

   2) Twelve pieces of heavy machinery, including a street sweeper, were
missing.

   3) A car packed with explosives blew up, killing the two suspected bombers
and injuring several bystanders.

   4) Ore-Ida.

   5) According to the report, Pittsburgh area roads are the sixth worst in the
United States.

   6) East Carson Street on the South Side.

   7) Gene therapy, which would grow new blood vessels.

   8) U.S. Rep. Bob Livingston.

   9) Bob Kane.

   10) Lazarus.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998


                             1749 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                      November 11, 1998, Wednesday , METRO

SECTION: S.A. LIFE; Pg. 1G

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: DNA's biggest role still waits in the wings

BYLINE: Susan Yerkes

BODY: "It's in da genes, Georgie."

   That's the one line that comes back to me from an otherwise unmemorable
movie.

   Genes equal destiny, in the fatalistic opinion of the flick's anti-hero, a
teen-ager headed for a life of small-time crime.

   The kid in the film (the title of which escapes me) got his life all wrong.
But he got the part about genes all right.

   DNA is hot.

   The elegant double helix James Watson and Francis Crick first modeled in 1953
has led its explorers into the deepest mysteries of life. Today's genetics seems
to hold the key to infinite knowledge. Gene therapy and cloning promise miracle
cures, crops and creatures; gene marking may one day identify potential
illnesses, characteristics - even acts - before they occur.

   Yet DNA's biggest moments in the spotlight of public attention so far have
been celeb-driven.

   The double helix got its first role in a sizzling drama in 1995 as evidence
in the O.J. trial. But the average folks in the jury voted for Johnny Cochran's
red-hot rhetoric over cold blood samples.

   Scientists, not average folks, tested DNA in the disinterred bones of Czar
Nicholas II in 1996, and the replay of the historic royal murder gave the double
helix another starring role.

   Then came Dolly, a photogenic sheep whose doubling via genetic cloning gave
such celebs as Jay Leno ample fuel for puns and prognostications and gave DNA
another prime-time gig.

   This year, DNA's star status finally soared to supernova level, when it
became the trump card in outing the sexcapades of two U.S. presidents.

   First came Monica Lewinsky, who hoarded Clinton's contribution to her
wardrobe until Ken Starr took it away.

   DNA's stock leaped in the sensational index again last week, when scientists
rewrote history with the help of Thomas Jefferson's DNA.

   Yet right now science is taking huge strides likely to change our most basic
assumptions about human life.

   "The Human Genome Project is actually decoding the alphabet of life, and that
will impact the very meaning of being human," says Dr. Bill Stone, a geneticist
and Trinity University professor.

   "All our social mores, our law and religion are defined by how we see life.
And we may be looking at a whole new definition that may unleash an onslaught
against our social and even spiritual life."

   Private life, too, is in danger. DNA data banks already exist for certain
uses, and Stone and his peers forsee a day not too far in the future when
newborns' DNA is screened into central computers like a human bar code.

   Anyone with access to that data also will have access to details about us
that even we don't know.

   "There is a great need for the public to understand the impact that the
current research on DNA will have," Stone warns. "Awesome discoveries are being
made. And they will have awesome consequences."

   If we get stuck in the soap operas, some of the most crucial decisions in
human history will be made without us.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998


                             1750 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   November 10, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy may spare patients heart bypass surgery; Procedure sparks
growth of tiny new blood vessels

SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:


   DALLAS -- For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra
genes into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   The procedure is still highly experimental and is probably several years away
from routine use.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor -- or VEG-F -- into the hearts of
people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo ordinary bypass
surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene only does its work during fetal
development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings yesterday at a meeting here of the American Heart
Association.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach -- giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   Among the patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works completely without pain.

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   At the outset, Isner said gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty. At some point, however, it might be an alternative even for
those in early stages of disease who have had no other treatment.

   Pub Date: 11/10/98

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1751 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                     November 10, 1998 Tuesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 027

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy found effective in treating bypass patients

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA

BODY:

   DALLAS -- Doctors yesterday reported success in growing new blood vessels to
the heart using gene therapy.

   At St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, doctors injected DNA material
directly into patients' hearts - with astounding results.

   All of the 16 patients had previously had bypass surgery, some several times.
But in all of them the bypass grafts had closed up.

   "I couldn't even walk 100 yards," said Texas rancher Floyd Stokes, 58, who
was told that there was nothing more that could be done for him.

   "I was up against the wall," he said yesterday.

   But he contacted Dr. Jeffrey Isner, the cardiologist who is heading the gene
trials at St. Elizabeth's, and got into his study. In May, he had the DNA
injected into his heart muscle.

   Three weeks later, "I started feeling better. I told my wife, 'I hadn't felt
this good in 15 years.' "

   Isner, who presented his finding yesterday at the American Heart
Association's annual scientific sessions, said all 16 patients seem to be doing
better.

   Doctors are unsure how long the new vessels will hold up. There is still the
question of whether there will be an adequate blood supply to feed them.

   But experts say the findings, while preliminary, are important.

   "This is very exciting," said Dr. Valentin Fuster, AHA president. "I think
this is going to work."

   So far, the technique is only being used in patients with advanced heart
disease who have undergone conventional treatments.

   In time, it may be able to be used as a first-line therapy, replacing bypass
and angioplasty, in which a catheter is snaked through the coronary arteries to
clear them out.

   Fuster, however, said an approach being worked on by Dr. Michael Mann of
Brigham and Women's Hospital may be more promising as a first-line therapy.

   So far, Mann's work has been confined to blocked leg arteries, but it will
soon be tested on coronary arteries. His technique is used in connection with
traditional bypass surgery.

   The bypass grafts are dipped in a solution containing genetic material before
being attached. The idea is to make the bypass grafts less likely to close up in
time, making second and third bypass operations unnecessary.

   Bypass grafts often fail because they are trying to do a job for which they
were not intended.

   "They are veins acting like arteries," Mann said.

   The gene manipulation makes the vessel walls more like those seen in
arteries, thus making them less likely to close up, he said.

   Several other researchers also reported preliminary findings yesterday on
similar gene therapy techniques aimed at growing new coronary vessels or
perfecting bypass grafting.

   Dr. Ronald Crystal of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center has introduced
genetic material which was attached to a de-activated cold virus during bypass
surgery. The virus takes the DNA material directly to the heart.

   Results on 21 patients have been inconclusive, but no side effects have been
reported.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998


                             1752 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1998 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                    November 10, 1998, Tuesday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: GENE INSERTS ALLOW PATIENTS TO GROW BYPASSES

BYLINE: DANIEL Q. HANEY; Associated Press

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:


   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor -- or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff --
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene only does its work
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American Heart Association in
Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach -- giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely
without pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998


                             1753 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

             November 10, 1998, TUESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Doctors inject genes to grow heart bypass

BYLINE: BY DANIEL Q. HANEY

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts, who reported their findings Monday in Dallas at a meeting of the
American Heart Association, say the procedure is the first example of gene
therapy correcting a human illness.

   Several competing teams of doctors injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor in the hearts of people who have
clogged vessels but are too sick to have bypass surgery or angioplasty. The gene
usually only works in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   The procedure is probably several years away from routine use.

GRAPHIC: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998


                             1754 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1998 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                      November 10, 1998 Tuesday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-02

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy grows bypasses, doctors show

BYLINE: By Daniel Q. Haney, The Associated Press

BODY:

   DALLAS - For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes
into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place on the heart to create a
detour around a blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff -
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene does its work only
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American Heart Association in
Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference in March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998


                             1755 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                   November 10, 1998, Tuesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy aids heart patients;
Procedure helps muscle grow new blood vessels to bypass clogs

SOURCE: Staff

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   DALLAS - Inserting genes into patients' heart muscle has caused it to grow
new blood vessels that can restore the organ in much the way a bypass does for a
less-damaged heart, researchers said Monday.

   The procedure involves inserting the gene for a protein called vascular
endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, into a patient's blood-starved heart muscle,
Dr. Jeffrey Isner, professor of medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine
in Boston, told the American Heart Association meeting.

   VEGF encourages growth of a network of tiny blood vessels, a process called
angiogenesis. Patients who underwent the procedure had blocked coronary
arteries, a condition that reduces the blood flow to the heart.

   This condition caused chest pain called angina every time the patients
exerted themselves.

   While Isner and others called the results preliminary, he said they are
encouraged.

   Floyd Stokes, 58, a DeLeon, Texas, peanut farmer, received the gene on May
26. He had had bypass surgery after a heart attack in 1989, but he never
recovered completely.

   After a second heart attack in September 1997, he did not know where to turn,
but then his wife, Jean, read about Isner's work. Isner had begun his gene
therapy tests with patients whose legs had blocked arteries, but he was awaiting
approval to work with heart patients.

   After Stokes underwent the gene insertion, which involved a tiny chest
incision, he felt only a little soreness.

   Three weeks later, Stokes told his wife, "I feel better than I have in 15
years." He has returned to strenuous labor, he said.

   Stokes is one of 16 patients who has undergone the gene therapy insertion,
but Isner said as many as 250,000 patients each year have inadequate blood flow
to the heart and cannot undergo bypass surgery or balloon procedures to open
their coronary arteries.

   All 16 patients had had one to three heart attacks. Eleven had undergone a
balloon procedure and 15 had at least one bypass procedure. The average number
of such surgeries was two, Isner said.

   The incision in the chest and the injection of the gene took about one hour
in the operating room, said Isner. Most patients left the hospital in three or
four days.

   Tests demonstrated that the gene was causing heart muscle cells to make VEGF
for at least two weeks, long enough to encourage growth of new blood vessels,
Isner said.

   Before the procedure, all the patients could not walk more than 100 feet and
could not work because of excruciating chest pain.

   On average, they took 60 tablets of nitroglycerin each week to relieve the
pain. Now the average dose is only 2 pills each week, Isner said.

   Six of the 11 patients studied for at least three months have no chest pain.
Tests show improved blood flow to their heart muscle.

   All the patients showed significant improvement in their ability to walk and
perform exertion, Isner said, with 40 percent having to perform exceptional
exertion before experiencing chest pain.

   He said he hopes the gene can be inserted through a catheter or small tube
threaded up from a blood vessel in the groin. That would eliminate the need for
surgery.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1756 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                        November 10, 1998 Tuesday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 1

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy grows blood vessels in heart
 Researchers report success in study of patients with debilitating heart disease

BYLINE: NEIL D. ROSENBERG

SOURCE: Journal
Sentinel staff

DATELINE: Dallas

BODY:

   Gene therapy has for the first time been used successfully to grow new blood
vessels in the heart, restoring normal or near-normal lives to those with severe
heart disease, according to a study released Monday.

   "We are extremely encouraged by this therapy," Jeffrey Isner, professor of
medicine and pathology at Tufts University School of Medicine in Boston, told
reporters and colleagues attending the annual American Heart Association
scientific sessions.

   But he and other scientists engaged in similar research cautioned that the
results were only preliminary.

   In the study, 16 middle-aged and elderly men, who faced almost certain heart
death after failing conventional therapy rangi ng from surgery to angioplasty,
had genetic material that directs blood vessel growth injected directly into
their hearts.

   Before the surgery, the men's hearts had been so compromised that each of
them would develop excruciatingly painful and disabling angina, or chest pain,
"with the most minimal or trivial exertion," Isner said. On average, the men had
to take 60 nitroglycerin tablets a month for their pain and still were not
pain-free.

   But after the procedure, and in mos t cases within a few weeks, 60% ould
partake in most daily activities without pain, and 40% suffered pain only with
the most severe exertion. The average nitroglycerin intake had fallen to 2.5
tablets a month.

   At the heart of the treatmen t is a gene or DNA segment that directs the
production of vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, which stimulates the
growth of blood vessels.

   Isner, who produces the gene in his own laboratory, injected it directly into
the heart m uscle through a small chest incision so the patient did not have to
be on a heart-lung bypass machine. There were no major side effects.

   If the results hold up, the procedure could become the "holy grail" of
treatment for severe heart disea se, which now is handled through open heart
coronary bypass surgery and angioplasty. Both are invasive techniques that carry
small but unavoidable risks of major complications and even death.

   At the very least, the strategy holds out hope f or the most severe cases, in
which surgery and other techniques have failed, and for which even the most
rigorous medical treatment cannot control the chest pain caused by compromised
blood flow to the heart muscle.

   It is estimated that a t least 250,000 Americans currently fall into this
group.

   One such dramatic case is Floyd Stokes, a west Texas farmer and rancher who
said his heart disease was so bad that "I couldn't do anything anymore and had
to hire it all out. If I could do it driving a pickup, then I could do it."

   He was Isner's seventh patient, on May 26, and within two weeks he felt
better, he said in an interview. Three weeks after the treatment, he awoke on a
Sunday and "I turned to my wife and said I haven't felt this good in 15 years. I
couldn't believe it worked that quickly," he said. Now, five months later, he
said, he is free of pain.

   There were several other reports of successful related uses of VEGF at the
meeting. Among them:

   VEGF was hooked up with a virus as a delivery system and given to patients
undergoing coronary bypass surgery as an adjunct therapy. Of 16 patients in the
New York research study, all improved to some degree.

   In Finla nd, the gene was attached to a fat particle and delivered by
catheter immediately after angioplasty to prevent the blood vessel from closing
up again a complication called restenosis that occurs in 30% or more of cases.
In a short follow-up period, it appears to be effective.

   Nicholas Kipschidze of the Medical College of Wisconsin reported using VEGF
and an old-time surgical technique to restore blood flow in five patients with
end stage heart disease, with positive results so far.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1757 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                 NOVEMBER 10, 1998 Tuesday LATE SPORTS EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: GROWING YOUR OWN BYPASS / INSERTING EXTRA GENES MAY AVOID BYPASS
SURGERY

BYLINE: Daniel Q. Haney, Associated Press

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs and now in
the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually correcting a
human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff -
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick for ordinary
bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene does its work only during
fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal, of Cornell Medical School, in New York City. He and
others reported their findings yesterday at a meeting of the American Heart
Association in Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner, of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center, Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed for at least three
months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, 58, a peanut farmer from DeLeon, Texas.
For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he could
walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his pickup
truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely
without pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

NOTES: HEALTH Watch
Science and Discovery

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002


                             1758 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      NOVEMBER 10, 1998 Tuesday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: USING GENES TO TREAT HEART AILMENTS / THE THERAPY, YEARS AWAY FROM
ROUTINE USE, COULD ELIMINATE THE NEED FOR BYPASS SURGERY.

BYLINE: Daniel Q. Haney, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy correcting a
human ailment.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F (pronounced vedge-eff) -
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene only does its work
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain. Nevertheless, the procedure is still
highly experimental and is probably several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York. He and others
reported their findings yesterday at a meeting of the American Heart Association
in Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, 58, a peanut farmer from DeLeon, Texas.
For the last two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he could
walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his pickup
truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, without pain.

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hour-long surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

   At the outset, Isner said gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty. At some point, however, it might be an alternative even for
those in early stages of disease who have had no other treatment.

   Crystal's team has treated 21 patients - 15 during bypass surgery, six as the
sole therapy. "Clearly the trend is toward improvement," he said, even though
it's too soon to judge how well his approach worked.

   Instead of injecting bare strands of DNA, as Isner used, Crystal created a
hybrid cold virus to carry the VEG-F gene into heart cells. Tests suggest that
the gene produces blood vessel-promoting proteins for two or three weeks and
then stops working. However, this apparently is long enough to grow a permanent
new blood supply.

   How long the improvement lasts remains to be seen, and Dr. Valentin Fuster,
president of the Heart Association, urged caution. "We think it will work," he
said, "but how much? What will be the impact?"

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002


                             1759 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                   November 10, 1998, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS SAY GENE THERAPY MAY REPLACE HEART BYPASS

BYLINE: MAGGIE FOX, REUTERS NEWS SERVICE

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:


   Gene therapy has been used for the first time to grow new blood vessels to
nourish the hearts of patients with severe blockages, doctors said yesterday.

   A team at Tufts University in Boston said the 16 men they used the new
treatment on had less chest pain afterward and needed to take fewer drugs.

   If further experiments work, Dr. Jeffrey Isner, who led the team, thinks gene
therapy could become the first line of treatment for patients with clogged
arteries.

   ''We can try it and if the patient responds that's great (and) we've saved
him an operation,'' Isner told a news conference.

   The treatment involved injecting a gene that controls production of VEGF, or
vascular endothelial growth factor, which instructs the body to grow new blood
vessels.

   Evidently the new blood vessels did grow, Isner and colleagues told a meeting
of the American Heart Association.

   The 16 volunteers all had suffered heart attacks. All had blocked arteries
and all had had either bypass surgery or angioplasty to stretch open their
clogged blood vessels - many of them several times.

   ''This was a group of patients that had received the best that cardiology and
cardiac surgery had to offer,'' Isner said. Yet each time the blockages came
back. Most of the men had such bad chest pain they could not live normal lives.

   The VEGF was injected right into the heart through a small incision in the
chest. The operation was quick - it lasted just an hour - and they were out of
the hospital in days.

   Last year Isner's team used VEGF to grow blood vessels in legs blocked by
atherosclerosis but this is the first time it has been used in vessels feeding
the heart.

   Isner says the capillaries that are grown by the VEGF would be too tiny to
see with conventional imaging techniques, but other tests indicate renewed flow
of blood to the heart.

   He has only followed up his patients for a few months and stresses the
technique will have to show long-lasting effects in many people before it can be
tried on a large scale.

   ''The big question is how long it is going to stay,'' warned Dr. Bill Isom of
Cornell University, who is working on another gene therapy trial.

   But the potential is huge. Isner said about 250,000 patients a year have
ischemia, or blocked blood flow, but in whom bypass surgery, angioplasty to
stretch open the vessels and drugs have not worked.

   ''For these patients there is currently no other treatment option,'' he said.

   And as the VEGF seems very safe - no patients have reported serious
side-effects - Isner hopes it may even become a first line of treatment, before
surgical methods.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1760 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                     November 10, 1998 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: UNITED STATES

BODY:

   CIA says Iraq could revive its arsenals

   Washington - Iraq could rebuild its chemical and biological arsenals quickly
if international arms inspections ceased, the CIA said yesterday as the Clinton
administration prepared options on the latest standoff. The report predates the
latest flurry of activity involving Iraq, but a U.S. intelligence official said
yesterday that the assessment reflects current thinking. Administration
officials are debating whether continued inspections or an open-ended threat of
military force can root out Iraq's suspected secret weapons cache.

   Reward is offered in doctor's slaying

   Washington - Attorney General Janet Reno posted a $500,000 reward for capture
of the sniper who killed Dr. Barnett Slepian of Amherst, N.Y., and she set up a
national task force to prosecute and prevent attacks and threats against other
abortion providers. Slepian was slain last month by a rifle shot fired into his
suburban Buffalo home. Reno asked anyone with information to call
1-800-281-1184.

   Gene therapy said to help heart cases

   Dallas - For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes
into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses. The
approach could spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in which a piece of
blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a blockage. Experts
say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs and now in
the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually correcting a
human ill. The findings were reported yesterday at a meeting of the American
Heart Association.

   Jones encouraged to settle suit

   Little Rock, Ark. - The judge who oversaw the sexual harassment lawsuit
against President Clinton signaled in January she believed Paula Jones had a
weak case and offered to encourage Jones to accept a settlement, court documents
unsealed yesterday show. U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright indicated
during a closed hearing Jan. 12 that she would like to tell Jones "that she
should accept a reasonable offer, that she could have a difficult time winning
her case," according to minutes from the hearing.

   Soldiers charged in chopper crash

   Fort Stewart, Ga. - Three soldiers have been charged with involuntary
manslaughter for taking two of their wives for an unauthorized ride on an Army
helicopter that crashed in the Bahamas, killing both women. Chief Warrant
Officers David E. Guido and Daniel P. Riddell and Sgt. William E. Westgate, had
been sent to the Bahamas to take part in an anti-drug program with the Bahamian
government. They took Guido's wife, Pam, and Riddell's wife, Rebecca, for a ride
on their UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter July 6. The men have recovered from their
injuries and will remain on duty pending a decision by higher-ups on whether to
court-martial them.

   Here's your chance to hear Lewinsky

   Washington - In her own words, Monica Lewinsky sometimes sounds like a vixen,
and other times like a little girl. But what does she really sound like? As
early as this week, the secretly recorded tapes of Lewinsky's telephone chats
with Linda Tripp will be released by the House Judiciary Committee. With their
airing, one of the last bits of mystery surrounding Lewinsky will be gone.

COLUMN: United States

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998


                             1761 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                     November 10, 1998 Tuesday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: UNITED STATES

BODY:

   CIA says Iraq could revive its arsenals

   Washington - Iraq could rebuild its chemical and biological arsenals quickly
if international arms inspections ceased, the CIA said yesterday as the Clinton
administration prepared options on the latest standoff. The report predates the
latest flurry of activity involving Iraq, but a U.S. intelligence official said
yesterday that the assessment reflects current thinking. Administration
officials are debating whether continued inspections or an open-ended threat of
military force can root out Iraq's suspected secret weapons cache.

   Reward is offered in doctor's slaying

   Washington - Attorney General Janet Reno posted a $500,000 reward for capture
of the sniper who killed Dr. Barnett Slepian of Amherst, N.Y., and she set up a
national task force to prosecute and prevent attacks and threats against other
abortion providers. Slepian was slain last month by a rifle shot fired into his
suburban Buffalo home. Reno asked anyone with information to call
1-800-281-1184.

   Gene therapy said to help heart cases

   Dallas - For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes
into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses. The
approach could spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in which a piece of
blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a blockage. Experts
say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs and now in
the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually correcting a
human ill. The findings were reported yesterday at a meeting of the American
Heart Association.

   Jones encouraged to settle suit

   Little Rock, Ark. - The judge who oversaw the sexual harassment lawsuit
against President Clinton signaled in January she believed Paula Jones had a
weak case and offered to encourage Jones to accept a settlement, court documents
unsealed yesterday show. U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright indicated
during a closed hearing Jan. 12 that she would like to tell Jones "that she
should accept a reasonable offer, that she could have a difficult time winning
her case," according to minutes from the hearing.

   Soldiers charged in chopper crash

   Fort Stewart, Ga. - Three soldiers have been charged with involuntary
manslaughter for taking two of their wives for an unauthorized ride on an Army
helicopter that crashed in the Bahamas, killing both women. Chief Warrant
Officers David E. Guido and Daniel P. Riddell and Sgt. William E. Westgate, had
been sent to the Bahamas to take part in an anti-drug program with the Bahamian
government. They took Guido's wife, Pam, and Riddell's wife, Rebecca, for a ride
on their UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter July 6. The men have recovered from their
injuries and will remain on duty pending a decision by higher-ups on whether to
court-martial them.

   Here's your chance to hear Lewinsky

   Washington - In her own words, Monica Lewinsky sometimes sounds like a vixen,
and other times like a little girl. But what does she really sound like? As
early as this week, the secretly recorded tapes of Lewinsky's telephone chats
with Linda Tripp will be released by the House Judiciary Committee. With their
airing, one of the last bits of mystery surrounding Lewinsky will be gone.

COLUMN: United States

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998


                             1762 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                       November 10, 1998, Tuesday , METRO

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Extra genes inserted in heart help to grow new bypasses

BYLINE: Daniel Q. Haney; Associated Press

BODY: DALLAS - For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra
genes into the heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach someday could spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff -
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene does its work only
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure still is highly experimental and probably is
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City.

   He and others reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American
Heart Association in Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene.

   At a conference last March, doctors from the University of Minnesota showed
the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15 patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 21/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from the
Texas community of DeLeon.

   For the past two years, Stokes had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup.

   Stokes underwent the procedure May 26. Within three weeks, he began to feel
better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely without
pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

   At the outset, Isner said, gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that can't be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty. At some point, however, it might be an alternative even for
those in early stages of disease who have had no other treatment.

   Crystal's team has treated 21 patients - 15 during bypass surgery, six as the
sole therapy.

   "Clearly, the trend is toward improvement," he said, even though it's too
soon to judge how well his approach worked.

   Instead of injecting bare strands of DNA, as Isner used, Crystal created a
hybrid cold virus to carry the VEG-F gene into heart cells.

   Tests suggest that once installed, the gene produces blood vessel-promoting
proteins for two or three weeks and then stops working. However, this apparently
is long enough to grow a permanent new blood supply.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998


                             1763 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 10, 1998, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY HELPS PEOPLE GROW HEART BYPASSES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:


   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can let patients grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested first in the legs and
now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F - into the hearts of people
who have clogged vessels but are too sick to have ordinary bypass surgery or
angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene only does its work during fetal development in
the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American Heart Association in
Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston. All of them were
heart attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment are too
small to be seen.

   One of his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely
without pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hour-long surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   At the outset, Isner said gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty. At some point, however, it might be an alternative even for
those in early stages of disease who have had no other treatment.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998


                             1764 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                           November 10, 1998 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Gene injection spurs blood-vessel growth

BYLINE: Daniel Q. Haney, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

    The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

    Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

    Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff -
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene only does its work
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

    Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

    "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings yesterday at a meeting of the American Heart Association
in Dallas.

    Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach - giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients treated.

    Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

    Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 21/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are entirely free of pain.

    A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

    "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

    Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure on May 26. Within three weeks, he began to
feel better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely
without pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

    Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure, in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

    Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

GRAPHIC: "GENE THERAPY": CHART ILLUSTRATING HOW TREATMENT WORKS. REFER TO
MICROFILM.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1765 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       November 10, 1998 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY WORKS: HEART PATIENTS GROW THEIR OWN BYPASSES

BYLINE: By Daniel Q. Haney Associated Press writer

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could some day spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor -- or VEG-F -- into the hearts of
people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo ordinary bypass
surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily the gene does its work only during fetal
development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American Heart Association in
Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than the more direct approach of giving people doses of the protein made
by the gene. At a conference in March, doctors from the University of Minnesota
showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15 patients
treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are free of pain.

   Tests show improved blood flow to the patients' heart muscle, even though the
blood vessels created by the treatment are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure May 26. Within three weeks, he began to feel
better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely without
pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

   At the outset, Isner said gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1766 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                       November 10, 1998 Tuesday, ORLEANS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY WORKS: HEART PATIENTS GROW THEIR OWN BYPASSES

BYLINE: By DANIEL Q. HANEY Associated Press writer

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could some day spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted around a blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor - or VEG-F - into the hearts of people
who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo ordinary bypass surgery or
angioplasty. Ordinarily the gene does its work only during fetal development in
the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Dr. Ronald Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings Monday at a meeting of the American Heart Association in
Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than the more direct approach of giving people doses of the protein made
by the gene. At a conference in March, doctors from the University of Minnesota
showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15 patients
treated.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of Dr.
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients who have been followed up for at least
three months, six are free of pain.

   Tests show improved blood flow to the patients' heart muscle, even though the
blood vessels created by the treatment are too small to be seen.

   "We are extremely encouraged about this therapy," Isner said.

   Among his patients is Floyd Stokes, a 58-year-old peanut farmer from DeLeon,
Texas. For the past two years, he had been so handicapped by chest pain that he
could walk no more than 100 yards and did most of his work from the seat of his
pickup truck.

   Stokes underwent the procedure May 26. Within three weeks, he began to feel
better. Now, he said, he walks and works as much as he wants, completely without
pain.

   "One Sunday morning I woke up and told my wife I hadn't felt so good in 15
years," he said. "I felt fantastic."

   Stokes and other patients underwent an hourlong surgical procedure in which
doctors cut a small hole in the chest wall and injected the genes into their
hearts.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

   At the outset, Isner said gene threapy might help the 25,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999


                             1767 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                   November 10, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Gene injects hope for heart patients

BYLINE: Steve Sternberg

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   For the first time, doctors have injected genes directly into
the heart muscle and triggered the growth of healthy new arteries,
researchers said Monday.

   The study, reported at the American Heart Association meeting
here, involved 16 patients with severe chest pain, all of whom
sprouted new arteries and appeared to benefit from the treatment.

   In just a few years, researchers say, gene therapy may offer new
hope to as many as 250,000 people a year with hopelessly clogged
arteries that could not be cleared or bypassed.


   "This experience clearly demonstrates proof of principle, that
this concept will work," said lead investigator Jeffrey Isner
of Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston.

   The patients treated by Isner and his colleagues had had heart
attacks, angioplasties and an average of two coronary bypass operations
each.

   All suffered extreme "class 4" pain. Now all are in the mildest
categories, classes 1 and 2.

   "Even after I had my bypass surgery, I never felt as good as
I do now," says patient Floyd Stokes, 58, a peanut farmer from
DeLeon, Texas.

   Isner made a small incision between Stokes' ribs and injected
the genes, from a growth factor known as VEGF, into his heart.
In Stokes, as in the other patients, new arteries sprouted. Pain
ebbed within 30 days.

   But Keith Allen of St. Vincent Hospital in Indianapolis cautioned
that several more years of research are needed. "We don't know
what's going to happen long-term to the hearts we inject VEGF
into," he said.

   In a separate report, Michael Mann of Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, said gene therapy can be used to keep leg artery bypasses
from closing, as they do in half the cases.

   Of the 17 patients who received treated grafts, only five failed.
Grafts failed in 10 of 16 control patients, Mann says.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998


                             1768 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   November 10, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Injected Genes Help Grow Heart Bypasses

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 9

BODY:


   For the first time, doctors have shown that by inserting extra genes into the
heart, they can enable patients to grow their own bypasses.

   The approach could someday spare patients the need for bypass surgery, in
which a piece of blood vessel is grafted into place to create a detour around a
blockage.

   Experts say this new gene-insertion procedure, tested initially in the legs
and now in the heart, represents the first example of gene therapy actually
correcting a human ill.

   Several competing teams of doctors have injected a gene that makes a protein
called vascular endothelial growth factor -- or VEG-F, pronounced vedge-eff --
into the hearts of people who have clogged vessels but are too sick to undergo
ordinary bypass surgery or angioplasty. Ordinarily, the gene does its work
during fetal development in the womb.

   The doctors found clear, and in some cases dramatic, evidence that the gene
prompts the heart to sprout tiny new blood vessels to nourish blood-starved
muscle and relieve crippling chest pain.

   Nevertheless, the procedure is still highly experimental and is probably
several years away from routine use.

   "We are trying to take damaged adult organs and return them to youth," said
Ronald G. Crystal of Cornell Medical School in New York City. He and others
reported their findings today at a American Heart Association meeting in Dallas.

   Still unclear is whether this kind of genetic manipulation will work any
better than a more direct medical approach -- giving people doses of the protein
made by the gene. At a conference last March, doctors from the University of
Minnesota showed that the VEG-F protein appeared to ease angina in 13 of 15
patients.

   Among those receiving injections of the VEG-F gene were 16 patients of
Jeffrey Isner of St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, all of them heart
attack victims who suffered excruciating chest pain at even the mildest
exertion.

   Some of Isner's patients were taking as many as 60 nitroglycerin tablets a
week for their pain. Now all have improved substantially, and the average dose
is 2 1/2 pills weekly. Of the 11 patients whose health has been tracked for at
least three months since injections, six are entirely free of pain.

   A variety of tests, including nuclear scans, show improved blood flow to the
patients' heart muscle, even though the blood vessels created by the treatment
are too small to be seen.

   Isner said his team hopes to make the process easier by using a catheter
threaded through an artery into the heart to deliver the genes. Animal studies
have shown this should work.

   At the outset, Isner said gene therapy might help the 250,000 U.S. patients
annually who have severe chest pain that cannot be corrected with bypass surgery
or angioplasty.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998


                             1769 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     November 9, 1998, Monday ,City Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: HEARTENING RESULTS ;
Early success is spurring big new trials

BYLINE: By Richard A. Kno, Globe Staff

BODY:

   The human heart always strives to survive. When gunk and scars clog its
arteries due to a too-rich diet, insufficient exercise, or unlucky genes, it
responds valiantly by sprouting new vessels that bring in blood from nearby
unclogged arteries.

    But eventually these new "collateral" vessels can no longer compensate for
atherosclerosis. That's when oxygen-starved heart muscle sends the ominous pain
signals called angina that often foretell a heart attack.

    That's what happened to Phillip Fletcher, a 48-year-old Kansas businessman.
"I was a runner, and back in 1990 I was having trouble completing 10-kilometer
races," Fletcher says. Despite coronary bypass surgery, his angina progressed to
the point that his wife has to schlepp his luggage through airports.

    For patients like Fletcher, specialists have long thought it would be great
if they could stimulate and amplify the growth of new coronary blood vessels.

    It's beginning to appear they can. Fletcher last week became the 17th
patient to undergo experimental vessel-growing therapy in a high-visibility
trial at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston. Encouraging results from this
and other early experiments in the United States and Europe are spurring a rash
of large-scale, controlled trials that will enroll hundreds of cardiac patients
over the coming year.

    Researchers discussed the latest evidence at a Dallas symposium on Saturday
sponsored by the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, and in interviews last week. More
findings will be forthcoming this week at the American Heart Association's
annual scientific conference in Dallas.

    "I would say skepticism is lessening," says Dr. Stephen G. Ellis of Ohio
State University. "There are a lot of thoroughly positive-looking results,
although no one study is definitive."

    Ellis estimates that 75,000 to 300,000 US patients could benefit from a
therapy to grow new coronary vessels because they have clogged arteries that
cannot be bypassed surgically or opened with angioplasty. Eventually it could be
used in conjunction with bypass or angioplasty, or even replace these procedures
for some patients.

    Some of the recent trials, like the one Fletcher is in, involve injecting
genes into heart muscle or coronary arteries in the hope this will induce heart
cells to secrete a blood vessel growth factor. Others involve injecting the
protein growth factors themselves, rather than genes for them.

    Another controversial strategy first tried in the 1980s - using lasers to
drill channels through the heart wall - is enjoying a modest resurgence because
of evidence that it may not work by directly bringing blood to starved muscle
but by inducing the growth of new vessels.

    "The next wave of studies" on the laser procedure, called transmyocardial
revascularization, "is to use these channels as repositories of blood vessel
growth factors or genes," says Dr. Steven N. Oesterle of Massachusetts General
Hospital.

    A wide variety of large-scale human experiments in "angiogenesis," as this
blood vessel growth is called, are just getting under way.

    "The whole area is moving very fast," says Dr. Michael Simons, director of
angiogenesis research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. "I
think it's not an issue of whether these things will work, but whom to give them
to and how, what is the best agent - there will probably be more than one - and
what side effects there are."

    Simons and his colleagues have just finished two preliminary trials
involving a total of 90 patients. Two dozen patients got infusions of fibroblast
growth factor (FGF) protein during coronary bypass surgery, to stimulate new
vessel growth in areas where bypasses couldn't help. Another 66 had FGF protein
injected into their coronary arteries with no other treatment.

    On average, Simons said, patients had improved exercise capacity, reduced
angina pain, and evidence of improved cardiac blood flow. Since researchers did
not compare patients who received FGF with those who got a placebo, or inert
substance, "we have to be careful with our interpretations," Simons said, "but
the data look very encouraging."

    Today the Simons group expects to announce a more rigorous
placebo-controlled trial of FGF alone (without bypass surgery) in 300 patients
at 20 medical centers.

    At New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Dr. Ronald G. Crystal is trying
a different approach: Injecting the gene for a blood vessel growth promoter
called VEGF (for vascular endothelial growth factor) hooked to a disabled
adenovirus, or cold virus. So far he has performed the experiment on 15 patients
who were also getting coronary bypass surgery and another half-dozen who got
gene injections into the heart through a small chest incision.

    "If this works - and it's still a big 'if' - I think it will emerge as a
major part of our armamentarium for treating coronary artery disease," says
Crystal, who will present results tonight in Dallas.

    Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner of St. Elizabeth's runs the human experiments that have
received the most attention so far. This is partly due to a widely reported
study Isner unveiled a year ago showing success in growing new blood vessels in
patients with painfully clogged leg arteries. It also has something to do with
the fact that Isner is not shy about his belief that angiogenesis works.

    Of approximately 70 patients with leg arteries so obstructed that they
couldn't walk, had severe pain at rest, or had persistent leg ulcers that often
lead to amputation, Isner claims 75 percent had "total relief of rest pain or
healing of ulcers" following injections of the VEGF gene. "If patients present
with rest pain, 100 percent have had relief," he says.

    Beginning last February, Isner and his colleagues have injected the VEGF
gene into the heart muscle of 17 patients with disabling angina pain who were
beyond help from conventional bypass surgery or angioplasty. Surgeons make a
small incision in the chest of patients to make four injections of fluid
containing "naked" DNA (without an attached virus) that directs cells to make
the VEGF growth factor protein.

    Of the 11 cardiac patients Isner has followed for at least three months, six
"are now free of angina," he says. Only one of the 11 did not have significant
lessening of angina.

    In Dallas this past weekend, Isner showed results of radionuclide scans -
pictures illustrating cardiac blood flow - that he considers the most objective
evidence that VEGF gene therapy actually grows new coronary blood vessels.

    The evidence is still indirect, because the new vessels are too tiny to show
up on standard studies called angiograms, in which cardiologists inject dye into
coronary arteries to trace blood flow. A main coronary artery is 2 to 3.5
millimeters in diameter, about the size of a piece of spaghetti. Angiograms show
vessels down to 0.2 millimeters. But the new vessels produced by growth factors
are less than 0.18 millimeters - smaller than the width of a human hair.

    Nevertheless, Isner believes they are big enough, and plentiful enough, to
rescue oxygen-starved tissue and banish, or significantly lessen, angina pain.

    He cites patients such as John Barlow, a 70-year-old Cape Cod veteran of
bypass operations dating back to 1982. Before VEGF genes were injected into his
ailing heart on March 17, Barlow couldn't make it from his car to the shopping
mall without popping a nitroglycerin pill for chest pain.

    "I haven't had a nitro in a couple of months or more," Barlow says now. He
spends 20 minutes at a time walking a 3 mile-an-hour pace on a treadmill three
or four times a week. "I'm convinced this has got to be the gene therapy," he
says.

    Isner says that kind of before-and-after improvement is not unusual among
his cardiac gene therapy patients. "When you see that magnitude of improvement,
it's very difficult to imagine this could be a placebo effect," he says.

    Others, even those who are enthusiastic about the prospects for angiogenic
therapy, disagree. "As a cardiologist I know all too well the kinds of influence
psychological factors have on patients who believe they're getting a therapy
that works," says Dr. H. Kirk Hammond of the University of California at San
Diego, who is running a controlled trial of FGF gene therapy.

    "I acknowledge until we can do controlled trials, the critics are entitled
to their day," Isner counters. Those studies are beginning, and soon researchers
expect to use new catheters to inject genes or growth factors, eliminating the
need for surgery. Most experts expect more definitive answers about coronary
angiogenesis within the next year or so.

   HEART AT REST

   HEART UNDER STRESS

    PLEASE SEE MICROFILM FOR CHART DATA

   GLOBE STAFF CHART

GRAPHIC: CHART PHOTO, 1. Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner is leading the trials at St.
Elizabeth's. / GLOBE STAFF/PHOTO WENDY MAEDA
2. John Barlow, 70, whounderwent gene therapy last March, says he hasn't needed
a nitroglycerin pills for at least two months. GLOBE PHOTO/STEPHEN ROSE

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998


                             1770 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       NOVEMBER 9, 1998 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: PHYSICIANS TOUTING NEW HEART TREATMENTS / AT A CONFERENCE, GENE
THERAPY AND SURGICAL METHODS RAISE HOPE. AN EMPHASIS REMAINS ON PREVENTIVE
STEPS.

BYLINE: Maggie Fox, REUTERS

DATELINE: DALLAS

BODY:

   New treatments ranging from gene therapy that might help regrow blocked
arteries around the heart to sophisticated new surgical methods are offering
hope for inroads against heart disease, doctors said yesterday.

   But they said all the new treatments in the world do no good if patients do
not stop smoking, lose weight and exercise, and they said finding ways to
encourage people to do these things remained a big challenge.

   Doctors and scientists gathered for the annual conference of the American
Heart Association will hear about experiments to regrow damaged heart cells, new
ways to keep a failed heart beating and medications that can help improve the
performance of devices that hold open narrowing arteries.

   They will also hear about low-tech approaches, such as ways to persuade their
patients to exercise daily, which is proven to decrease not only heart disease
and stroke but also diabetes and, of course, obesity.

   And they will argue for better availability of devices such as
defibrillators, which the association argues can save many lives if more people
have access to them.

   At this week's meeting in Dallas, attended by more than 30,000 experts,
scientists will tell of their experiments aimed at getting heart cells, which
normally do not divide and grow like other cells, to do just that.

   Now patients who have heart attacks get permanent scars; unlike skin cells,
heart cells never grow back. But researchers are looking for ways to change
that.

   "Understanding the triggers for growth and development in . . . heart cells
will give us the ability to grow new myocardial cells," said meeting chairwoman
Rose Marie Robertson of Vanderbilt University.

   Last year doctors reported that gene therapy using a gene called VEGF, a
growth factor for arteries, helped patients with blocked blood vessels in their
legs grow new arteries. This year the AHA meeting will hear about attempts to do
that with the arteries around the heart.

   "We probably can help," said Valentin Fuster, president of the association
and director of the cardiovascular institute at Mount Sinai Medical Center in
New York.

   Doctors also will report on experiments with a device called a left
ventricular assist device (LVAD), which has helped some patients stay alive for
two years.

   Fuster said perhaps that was a first step toward a substitute for heart
transplants.

   "Maybe we are entering a door that may be the answer for cardiac transplant
and the lack of [heart] donors," he said.

   Researchers also will report about new methods to show which blockages in
arteries are the most likely to cause a heart attack or stroke.

   But new treatments are not the only focus. So are old treatments, which are
not always used as widely as they should be and which do not always work
perfectly.

   Robertson noted that only 40 percent of patients with high blood pressure
were being treated for it, and just 27 percent of them had their blood pressure
at the target level.

   "I think it's very important that people don't take the advances that we have
made in treatment to mean that they don't have to participate in preventive
therapies," she said.

   Lynn Smaha, a cardiologist at the Guthrie Clinic in Sayre, Pa., and
president-elect of the association, said he often saw patients who saw no need
to diet or exercise.

   "Often they come in with a spoken or unspoken sense of 'Why should I do any
of this because in a year or two you'll have some fancy therapy,' " Smaha said.
"But if you have to go through this process [such as heart surgery or
angioplasty to stretch open clogged arteries], wouldn't it have been better to
have done something yourself?" he asked.

   Prevention, Smaha said, is cheaper and more effective and probably more
pleasant in the long run: "You get a lot more bang for the buck."

   The association also is pressing for old devices to be more widely used. It
will announce an initiative to make defibrillators - the devices that are seen
in television shows about emergency rooms that literally shock a heart back into
beating properly - more widely available.

   "I believe this is very important," Fuster said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002


                             1771 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)



                      November 8, 1998 Sunday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: TASK OF MAPPING HUMAN GENETICS SUGGESTS ROUTE TO NEW RESEARCH

BYLINE: By JOHN MANGELS; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:

   Completion of a genetic map of the human body - a ferociously complex project
scientists only recently thought would take decades - is now expected within
five years. But what is proving to be the truly hard part is figuring out what
those 80,000 or so genes that reside in human DNA do, how they work together,
and what happens to us when they don't work.

   Success "in the next few decades? No," predicted Temple F. Smith, director of
Boston University's Biomolecular Engineering Research Center, at a gathering of
the nation's science writers this week. "But never? Never is a very long time."

   Smith and several other genetic scientists involved in the $3 billion
international effort to plot the locations of the tiny bits of heredity known as
genes provided an update on the so-called Human Genome Project.

   Genes are the blueprints cells use to build proteins; proteins, in turn, are
the "micro-machines" that make it possible for an organism to assemble itself
and then to function.

   The Human Genome Project is an ambitious attempt to compile a kind of
"address list" of where all the genes reside along the twisted strands of human
DNA. Having such a map would be the foundation for ultimately being able to
repair a defective gene or replace a missing or desired one, thus curing or
perhaps preventing numerous genetic-based diseases, such as cancer.

   But having an address list for a giant office building doesn't tell you what
job each employee does, how or if they work - together or alone - to accomplish
tasks, and whether a worker's presence saves the company or sabotages it.

   Comparison is one way to figure out what specific genes do. Genetic
scientists already have deciphered the sequence, or code, of all the genes in
about 27 simple organisms, from the yeast that ferments beer to
almost-microscopic round worm called C. elegans. If you can narrow down what an
identified gene does in something as seemingly simple as yeast, and if you find
the same gene in human DNA, you should be able to predict that gene's function
in humans, right?

   It's not nearly that simple, said Smith. The protein micro-machine that a
particular gene tells a cell how to build may have more than one function,
depending on the organism. For example, a protein "on-off switch" that is the
creation of a particular gene may help the human eye convert light to electrical
signals for the brain.

   Building blocks

   Smith likens gene-designed proteins to Legos, the plastic building blocks
children play with. The same few blocks can be put together in a hundred
different ways to build a hundred different things, from a helicopter to a
castle.

   Further complicating efforts to understand what individual genes do: some
human genes appear not to have counterparts in simpler organisms, ruling out
comparison as a sleuthing method. And there are parts of the human DNA strand
that apparently aren't genes at all; the segments may be as-yet unidentified
mechanisms that control when a gene is turned on or off - something that causes
a hair-growing gene to work in skin cells on the scalp, but not in the nerve
cells of the eye.

   Despite these obstacles, the rate of discovery is rapidly increasing. "The
pace [in the Human Genome Project] is picking up enormously for a lot of
reasons," said Timothy J. Mitchison, co-director of Harvard Medical School's new
Institute of Chemistry and Cell Biology. A key reason: pharmaceutical companies'
growing realization that gene mapping is a step toward designing better - and
presumably highly profitable - drugs to treat gene-based diseases.

   Drug companies in the last year have become greatly interested in ways of
tailoring a drug to deal with that genetic variability, said Charles R. Cantor,
director of Boston University's Center for Advanced Biotechnology. "Can we do it
with existing technology? No, probably not." But eventually, he predicts, people
will be genetically tested before being given a drug, to determine what medicine
will work best with their unique genetic makeup.

   Genetic warfare

   The defense industry, and perhaps terrorists as well, also are paying
attention to the potential of mapping genes and understanding their functions.
Cantor said the federal government's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency -
the financier that backed creation of the Internet and a major supporter of
bio-tech research - is shopping for ways to detect and quickly treat new,
genetically engineered bio-weapons.

   Cantor is chief scientific officer of Sequenom, a San Diego bio-tech company.
He said the technology already exists to "shuffle" the genetic material of a
bacteria or virus, potentially making it more toxic or resistant to existing
treatments. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Cantor said, is
looking for someone to develop ways to detect tiny amounts of such a bio-weapon
in the field, and then engineer a defensive drug in three to five days - an
unheard-of speed since most drugs take years to develop.

   Warfare of a different kind is being waged over genetic knowledge gained from
the effort to map and understand all human genes. Pharmaceutical companies
involved in the work balk at publicly releasing their findings, or at giving
university-based researchers access to the firms' vast "chemical libraries" -
collections of small molecules that may someday work as gene-therapy drugs.

   A particular concern is that a private company working on the human gene map
might patent a portion of the gene sequence it decodes. In response, the
National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy, the two federal
agencies responsible for directing the Human Genome Project, have a goal of
making the genetic map available to anyone.

   "The earlier in the process you put intellectual property rights on [genetic
information], the more expensive it will make future drug discovery,
therapeutics and treatment," said Case Western Reserve University genetics
professor Aravinda Chakravarti.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998


                             1772 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1998 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                       November 6, 1998 Friday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-01

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Scientists unlock cell mystery Universal human spare-parts system
envisioned

BYLINE: By Nicholas Wade, The New York Times

BODY:

   Pushing the frontiers of biology closer to the central mystery of life,
scientists have for the first time picked out and cultivated the primordial
human cells from which an entire individual is created.

   The cells, derived from fertilized human eggs just before they would have
implanted in the uterus, have the power to develop into many of the 210
different types of cells in the body - and probably all of them. Because they
can divide indefinitely in culture without the signs of age that afflict other
cells, biologists refer to them as immortal.

   Eventually, researchers hope to use the cells to grow tissue for human
transplants or to introduce new or improved genes into people.

   But there is a thicket of ethical and legal issues, as well as technical
problems, to be overcome. The cells are obtained from embryos created at in
vitro fertilization clinics and so far do not seem definably different from the
primordial cells from which an entire individual is created.

   Though some of the scientists involved in the work see nothing unusual about
working with these cells, other researchers say they must be treated
differently, given their human potential. Once the work becomes widely known, it
may draw criticism from those who say it is wrong to interfere with nature by
doing any kind of research on cells like these.

   Known as human embryonic stem cells, they have eluded capture until now
because they exist in this state only fleetingly before turning into more
specialized cells, and need special ingredients to be kept alive outside the
body.

   The new cells have many possible uses, of which the most promising is to grow
new tissue, of any kind, for transplant into a patient's body. The cells may
also offer effective routes to human cloning, although both the researchers and
their sponsor deny any interest in this application. Another probable use is in
gene therapy, the insertion of new or modified genes into body tissue.

   Two forms of human embryonic cells have been developed, one by a team under
Dr. James Thomson of the University of Wisconsin in Madison, the other by Dr.
John Gearhart and colleagues at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
in Baltimore. Thomson's work is reported in this week's issue of Science, and
Gearhart's in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   Congress in 1995 banned federal financing of research on fetal cells,
including those derived from embryos, and the university researchers whose work
was announced Thursday were funded by the Geron Corp. of Menlo Park, Calif., a
biotechnology company that specializes in anti-aging research.

   "It has potential health benefits which I think are extremely promising, and
I am sorry that the law prevented us from supporting it," said Dr. Harold
Varmus, director of the National Institutes of Health.

   After an egg is fertilized it divides several times and forms a blastocyst, a
hollow sphere with a blob of 15 to 20 cells, known as the inner cell mass, piled
up against one wall. It is from these cells that the embryo develops. Thomson
grew his embryonic stem cells from the inner cell mass of blastocysts left over
from a fertility treatment and due to be discarded. Patients who had undergone
fertility treatment donated the blastocysts to be used in research.

   As an embryo grows and develops, its cells become irreversibly committed to
their fates as specialized components of the body's organs. A pocket of cells,
known as embryonic germ cells, is protected from the commitment process so as to
create the next generation of eggs and sperm.

   Gearhart's group has developed embryonic stem cells from the germ cells of
aborted fetuses. The cells developed by the two groups may well be equivalent,
but this has yet to be proved.

   If researchers are able to use the cells to grow new tissues, the work could
alleviate the shortage of livers and other organs for transplant. Cultures of
the cells in the laboratory could be nudged down different developmental
pathways to become heart or bone marrow or pancreatic cells. Before reaching
their final stages, the about-to-become heart cells, for example, could be
injected into a patient's ailing heart. Guided then by the body's own internal
regulatory signals, the cells would develop into new, young heart tissue,
supplementing or replacing the heart cells already there.

   The same approach should in principle work with any tissue of the body. Human
embryonic stem cells would thus serve as a universal spare parts system. Because
the cells grow and divide indefinitely in culture, very few blastocysts would be
needed.

   Many technical problems remain to be resolved. The art of directing embryonic
stem cells down specific pathways is in its infancy. But heart muscle cells have
been grown from mouse embryonic stem cells and successfully integrated with the
heart tissue of a living mouse. Thomson in 1995 isolated the embryonic stem
cells of a monkey, and Geron intends to do pilot experiments in these cells.

   Another problem lies in making grafted cells compatible with the patient's
immune system. Dr. Thomas Okarma, Geron's vice president for research, said
Geron would explore several ways of doing this. One, the least preferred, would
be to set up a bank with enough different human embryonic cells that most
patients could be matched. Another would be to suppress the self-recognition
genes that make the stem cells appear foreign to the patient's immune system or,
more elegantly, to replace them with copies of the patient's own
self-recognition genes.

   A third approach would be to convert one of the patient's own body cells back
to embryonic form by fusing it with a human embryonic stem cell whose own
nucleus had been removed. Embryonic cells may have the power, not yet
understood, to rescue an adult cell's nucleus from its specialized state by
flicking all the switches on its DNA back to default mode. This reprogramming of
DNA is presumably what happened when mice were cloned this July from adult
cells.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York Times/Marty Katz Dr. John Gearhart, in his Johns
Hopkins University lab in Baltimore on Thursday, heads one of two teams of
scientists who have discovered a breakthrough in human embryonic stem cell
research.

LOAD-DATE: November 06, 1998


                             1773 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times



                 November 6, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Cultivate Cells at Root of Human Life

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

BODY:

   Pushing the frontiers of biology closer to the central mystery of life,
scientists have for the first time picked out and cultivated the primordial
human cells from which an entire individual is created.

   The cells, derived from fertilized human eggs just before they would have
been implanted in the uterus, have the power to develop into many of the 210
types of cell in the body -- and probably all of them. Because they can divide
indefinitely when grown outside the body without signs of age that afflict other
cells, biologists refer to them as immortal.

    Eventually, researchers hope to use the cells to grow tissue for human
transplants and introduce genes into the body to remedy inherited disease.

   But there is a thicket of ethical and legal issues, as well as technical
problems, to be tackled. The cells are obtained from embryos created at in-vitro
fertilization clinics and so far do not seem definably different from the
handful of primordial cells from which an entire individual is created.

   The scientists involved in the work, some of which was reported today in the
journal Science, consider use of the cells justified because they come from
embryos that would otherwise have been discarded. But others believe the cells
have a special status in that they retain the potential to develop into an
individual, and that the use of the cells may draw criticism if this status is
not taken into account.

   The new cells, known as human embryonic stem cells, have eluded capture until
now because they exist in this state only fleetingly before turning into more
specialized cells, and need special ingredients to be kept alive outside the
body.

   The cells have many possible uses, of which the most promising is to grow new
tissue, of any kind, for transplant into a patient's body. The cells may also
offer effective routes to human cloning, although both the researchers and their
sponsor deny any interest in this application. Another likely use is in gene
therapy, the insertion of new or modified genes into body tissue.

   Two forms of human embryonic cells have been developed, one by a team under
Dr. James A. Thomson of the University of Wisconsin in Madison, the other by Dr.
John Gearhart and colleagues at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
in Baltimore, Md. Dr. Thomson's work is reported in Science. Dr. Gearhart's work
will be described later this month in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences.

   Congress in 1995 banned Federal financing of research on fetal cells,
including those derived from embryos, and the university researchers whose work
was announced today were financed by the Geron Corporation of Menlo Park,
Calif., a biotechnology company that specializes in anti-aging research.

   The research "has potential health benefits which I think are extremely
promising, and I am sorry that the law prevented us from supporting it," said
Dr. Harold Varmus, director of the National Institutes of Health.

Cells Are Specialized As They Develop

   After an egg is fertilized, it divides several times and forms a blastocyst,
a hollow sphere with a blob of 15 to 20 cells, known as the inner cell mass,
piled up against one wall. It is from these cells that the embryo develops. Dr.
Thomson grew his embryonic stem cells from the inner cell mass of blastocysts
that had been left over from fertility treatments and were to be discarded. The
donors of the blastocysts granted permission for them to be used in research.

   As an embryo grows and develops, its cells become irreversibly committed to
their fates as specialized components of the body's organs. A pocket of cells,
known as embryonic germ cells, is protected from the commitment process so as to
create the next generation of eggs and sperm. Dr. Gearhart's group has developed
embryonic stem cells from the germ cells of aborted fetuses. The cells developed
by the two groups may well be equivalent but this has yet to be proved.

   If researchers are able to use the cells to grow new tissues, the work could
alleviate the shortage of livers and other organs for transplant. Cultures of
the cells in the laboratory could be nudged down different developmental
pathways to become heart or bone marrow or pancreatic cells. Before reaching
their final stages, the about-to-become heart cells, for example, could be
injected into a patient's ailing heart. Guided then by the body's own internal
regulatory signals, the cells would develop into new, young heart tissue,
supplementing or replacing the heart cells already there.

   The same approach should in principle work with any tissue of the body. Human
embryonic stem cells would thus serve as a universal spare parts system. Because
the cells grow and divide indefinitely in the laboratory, very few blastocysts
would be needed.

   Many technical problems remain to be resolved. The art of directing embryonic
stem cells down specific pathways is in its infancy. But heart muscle cells have
been grown from mouse embryonic stem cells and successfully integrated with the
heart tissue of a living mouse. Dr. Thomson in 1995 isolated the embryonic stem
cells of a monkey, and Geron intends to do pilot experiments in these cells.

   Another problem lies in making grafted cells compatible with the patient's
immune system. Dr. Thomas B. Okarma, Geron's vice president for research, said
his company would explore several ways of doing this. One, the least preferred,
would be to set up a bank with enough different human embryonic cells that most
patients could be matched. Another would be to suppress the self-recognition
genes that make the stem cells appear foreign to the patient's immune system or,
more elegantly, to replace them with copies of the patient's own
self-recognition genes.

   A third approach would be to convert one of the patient's own body cells back
to embryonic form by fusing it with a human embryonic stem cell whose own
nucleus had been removed. Embryonic cells may have the power, not yet
understood, to rescue an adult cell's nucleus from its specialized state by
flicking all the switches on its DNA back to default mode. This reprogramming of
DNA is presumably what happened when mice were cloned in July from adult cells.

Concerns About Ethics Prevent Some Tests

   The ethical status of the cells is also likely to be a matter of discussion.
They cannot become a fetus, as their blastocyst no longer exists, yet they are
very similar, if not identical, to the 20 or so primordial cells from which the
embryo develops.

   Both research groups refer to their cells as "pluripotent" because, when
injected into a mouse with no immune system, the cells develop into many of the
major tissues of the body. The tissues are disorganized and do not develop into
a normal embryo.

   The cells may also be "totipotent," meaning they can form every one of the
body's cell types. The test for totipotency, developed with mouse embryonic stem
cells, is to inject stem cells into another blastocyst. A normal mouse will
usually develop, but it is composed of a patchwork of cells, some from the
blastocyst and some from the injected embryonic stem cells, proving the stem
cells retain all their powers.

   It would be unethical to perform such an experiment on people, but if it
could be done, it seems likely that the human embryonic cells cultured by the
researchers would also be able to form each of the body's cell types. If so,
they may be capable in principle of contributing to the generation of a new
individual.

   But ethicists say great care must be taken in work involving human embryonic
cells. "Any time you take a cell off a blastocyst, that cell could be used
itself to create a human being, so some groups in our society believe in making
it transplantable you have derailed it into becoming a kidney or some other
tissue," said Dr. Lori Andrews, an expert on the laws governing reproductive
technology at the Chicago Kent College of Law.

   "Some researchers say, 'It's just a bunch of cells, why should people care?'
But that totally avoids the fact that some people do care, and I'm concerned
that if the researchers don't take into consideration the variety of viewpoints
about embryos, they might ultimately end up with more restrictive regulations,"
Dr. Andrews said.

   Geron, which has exclusive licenses to use the cells, under patents held by
the researchers' universities, says it regards them as qualitatively different
from other cells used in research. "Because these cells are derived from human
blastocysts there is a moral authority here, so we take these cells seriously,"
said Dr. Okarma, of Geron.

   Dr. Okarma said he believed that use of the cells was justified because they
were something less than a living embryo, and life-saving treatments might be
derived from them. "We are not saying the ends justify the means, but that given
that the moral authority of these cells is subordinate to that of the embryo,
the work we contemplate with them is appropriate," he said.

   But Dr. Gearhart said he did not consider the cells that he and Dr. Thomson
have isolated to have a special moral status because "they cannot form a fetus
-- you cannot take one of these cells and form a being out of it."

   Still, Dr. Gearhart said he would not argue with the view of Dr. Okarma that
the cells had a different standing from ordinary cells. Dr. Johnson, too, said
that they were "special cells."

   Dr. Kevin T. Fitzgerald, a geneticist and Jesuit priest at Loyola University
Medical School, said that if the human embryonic stem cells were able to make
each of the body's cell types, "then you are disrupting the viability of life
and we are back to the question of how to justify destroying life for the
purposes of scientific advancement."

   The new cells may well reawaken fears of human cloning, although many
ethicists have now come around to believing that the public's fears, despite
science fiction writers' portrayal of clonal armies of frenzied despots, are
largely beside the point. Many experts now predict human cloning is more likely
to end up as a rare treatment offered in fertility clinics, no different from
others like in-vitro fertilization and egg donation in that they were first
bitterly denounced and are now regarded as routine.

   "Human cloning will likely also be accepted once it becomes a reality. Most
of today's ethical arguments against it were previously used against in-vitro
fertilization and turned out to be false," writes Dorothy C. Wertz, a
bioethicist at the Shriver Center, in the current issue of Gene Letter.

   The availability of human embryonic stem cells suggests a quite different
possibility to biologists, who are well aware of how mouse embryonic stem cells
have long been used to generate genetically altered mice. The belief that humans
can now be modified like the mouse "will be the knee-jerk reaction of the
academic community," Dr. Thomson said.

   He said human embryonic stem cells were unlikely to be used in this way
because there were more promising approaches for gene therapy in people. For one
thing, the mouse method requires the creation of many embryos in order to obtain
the few in which new genes integrate in exactly the correct position, as well as
the breeding of a male and female mouse that have been genetically altered. In
its present form, the technique is evidently inapplicable to humans.

Federal Law Shifts Research to Industry

   The National Institutes of Health and the university scientists it finances
often play a leading role in reviewing new biomedical technologies.

   But because of the Federal financing ban, university scientists cannot get
Government support to study human embryonic stem cells. But industry can do
whatever research it pleases, without necessarily obtaining government approval.
Academic biologists believe that this asymmetry is unfortunate and that the new
technique would receive better and more detached review if the agency and its
scientists could take part in the discussion.

   Dr. Varmus said that an expert panel on human embryo research had recommended
to the health institutes that attempts to derive stem cells from human embryos
should be permitted, but Federal efforts along this line were thwarted in 1995,
with the Congressional financing ban. Dr. Varmus said he believed the public
"will see how important the benefits of this research might be."

   A Senate bill to ban human cloning was defeated in February this year, the
principal argument of its opponents being that its overly broad language would
prohibit promising research on human embryonic stem cells.

   In any event, any ultimate use of human embryonic stem cells may face legal
hurdles in the nine states that have outright bans on research on human fetal
tissues, Dr. Andrews said.

   Some laws also prohibit payment for embryos, a restriction that might extend
to cells and tissues derived from embryos.

A Possibility Of Eternal Cells

   The technique reported today reaches to the central mysteries of life and
death. As biologists have recently begun to understand, the body's cells are not
inherently mortal. They become mortal only when committed to developing into one
or another of the body's mature cell types. These specialized cells have mostly
lost the ability to grow and divide, but a few, typically those of the skin and
intestinal lining, can divide in culture about 50 times and then die.

   In January this year, biologists at Geron learned how to manipulate the
section of DNA that marks off the 50 or so permissible divisions. By reversing
the changes in this section of DNA, called the telomere, they created lines of
cells that divided well beyond the usual limit and are still going strong, while
retaining their youthful vigor and appearance. Biologists refer to these
cultured cells as immortal because they are expected to grow and divide
indefinitely.

   Embyronic stem cells are also immortal because, until they become committed
to specialized fates, their telomeres are renewed each time they divide. Unlike
ordinary cells, they grow indefinitely in culture.

   In the lineage of living organisms, they cycle indefinitely from the embryo
to the germ line to a new embryo, forever avoiding specialization into the
mortal cell types that comprise the body.

   Geron biologists believe they can manipulate the telomeres of the human
embryonic stem cells so that the cells stay immortal even as they turn into
specialized tissues. Can the mortal body therefore be repaired with new, tissues
that remain youthful indefinitely? "Exactly," Dr. Okarma said.

   Critics have said it would be folly to tamper with the telomere
division-counting system because it probably arose in evolution as the body's
last-ditch defense against any runaway cell likely to become a cancer. Dr.
Okarma said that new experiments had largely laid this concern to rest by
showing that telomerised cells are no more likely to become malignant than are
normal cells.

   These grand schemes may or may not come to pass, but the techniques now at
hand for manipulating human embryonic stem cells will at least allow them to be
seriously attempted.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. John Gearhart in his laboratory at the Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, where so-called immortal human cells were
cultivated. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 24)

Diagram: "Growing Body Parts to Order"
Working with human embryos very early in the developmental process, researchers
haveisolated and cultivated cells they believe could be used to grow many kinds
of human tissue.

CULTIVATION
The cells come from blastocysts, balls of cells that form shortly after a human
egg is fertilized, and from the germ cellsof a more advanced embryo.

PREPARATION
Biologists are developingtechniques to nurse the cells in culture and direct
them into particular tissue types, depending on what
is needed for
transplant.

IMPLEMENTATION
The cells would not have togrow into whole organs but could be injected into the
patient, where they would then respond to local signals and integrate into
thepatient's tissue.

(Jim McManus/The New York Times; Photograph courtesy of the University of
Wisconsin)(pg. A1)


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998


                             1774 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                    NOVEMBER 6, 1998, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Embryonic Research Brings Great Hopes;

Cell studies may yield variety of cures within next 10 years

BYLINE: David Perlman, Chronicle Science Editor

BODY:
In a major research advance, scientists have harvested the most basic of all
cells from human embryos and cultured them to yield a wide variety of all the
other cells that make up the human body -- including muscles, bones, cartilage,
nerves and the digestive tract.

    Although the link from this basic research to the treatment of human disease
is many years away and could be fraught with political controversy, the
researchers already say they see in the distant future an extraordinary range of
practical applications.

    Growing new muscle tissue for failing hearts or new brain cells to replace
dying neurons -- fanciful as they may seem -- are only two of the implications
from the newly reported research, the scientists say.

    But even before the many obstacles to such feats are overcome, they say,
their newly discovered ability to grow huge quantities of human cell types in
the laboratory should enable drug developers to test thousands of new compounds
swiftly and select the most powerful disease-fighting ones.

    Two reports on the achievement by scientists at the University of Wisconsin
and Johns Hopkins University are being made public today in two prestigious
scientific journals: One appears in Science and he other in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences. At the same time, Geron Corp., the Menlo Park
biotechnology company that financed much of the work, announced that it has been
licensed by the University of Wisconsin to develop the discovery and push it
toward practical use.

    The leader of the Wisconsin team is Dr. James A. Thomson, a 39-year-old
developmental biologist, and in an interview yesterday he said:

    "This is a really wonderful new way to understand human development. It's
brand new science, but it will be years before it can yield new therapies,
although I really do believe they'll come in my lifetime."

    For more than 15 years, scientists around the world have explored the unique
qualities of cells that form within days after an egg is fertilized by a sperm
cell and begins multiplying to become an embryo.

    Known as "pluripotent stem cells," they are endowed by nature with a
specialized enzyme that lets them reproduce essentially forever, and they
develop into all the different types of cells that make up the tissues of the
human body.

    Using genetic engineering, the differentiated cells that arise from
embryonic stem cells could, in turn, be selected to become replacement tissues
for transplants, according to Dr. Thomas Okarma, Geron's vice president for
research and development.

    And although Okarma said the achievement "opens extraordinary opportunities
for tissue transplantation and for developing cell and gene therapy products
with breakthrough medical potential," he said patients might not benefit for at
least five years, possibly even a decade.

    In Thomson's laboratory, after years of studies conducted on mice and
monkeys, the team obtained its first human stem cells from newly formed embryos
donated by women who had successfully become pregnant after undergoing in vitro
fertilization.

    The microscopic clusters of cells are known as blastocysts, which form in a
woman's body soon after fertilization before they become implanted in the
uterus. It is usual for in vitro fertilization to produce more than one
blastocyst, and all except the one most likely to grow normally are usually
discarded while the best one is implanted in the potential mother.

    From these excess blastocysts, Thomson and his colleagues removed the basic
stem cells and grew them successfully in laboratory cultures -- a feat many
other teams of scientists had tried in vain to achieve. The cell cultures, in
turn, differentiated into five different lines of the same cells that make up
five types of tissues in the fully formed human body.

    Geron's funding has been crucial for this work because Congress has long
forbidden federal health agencies to finance any research that involves
experimenting with human embryos, and there is no sign that Congress will change
the law.

    To Thomson, the controversial federal ban impedes progress because, as he
said during his interview yesterday, it prevents academic scientists from
obtaining grants from the National Institutes of Health to pursue independent
research that could increase knowledge about the mysteries of human development
and help lead more quickly to medical progress against many human disorders.

    The natural processes that enable embryonic cells to develop to healthy
maturity can never be studied directly in the human body, but using the cultured
embryonic stem cells and studying their development will yield important
benefits in preventing such frequent problems as birth defects, infertility and
pregnancy loss, Thomson said.

    For the future, Thomson sees the real possibility that scientists will be
able to grow large-scale cultures of heart muscle cells that could be
transplanted into heart attack patients to replace the tissue killed in such
attacks.

    Other future strategies could ultimately be developed to treat a wide range
of human disorders, including diabetes, some forms of cancer and Parkinson's
disease, Thomson said.

    The Johns Hopkins team, headed by Dr. John Gearhart, also reported success
in culturing the "immortal" embryonic stem cells -- in this case from aborted
fetuses -- and in his report, Gearhart noted how invaluable the cells could
prove in understanding the safe development of human embryos, as well as
eventually providing tissues for organ transplants.

    "The potential of these unique, versatile cells for human biologic studies
and medicine is enormous," he said in a statement.

    As a result of widespread rumors about the research advance, Geron stock has
risen sharply since early last month and yesterday, even before the results were
officially released, the stock rose by more than 30 percent and closed at $9.94
a share in heavy trading that was almost 40 times the average volume over the
past six months.



GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, CULTURING CELLS FROM HUMAN EMBRYOS / CHRONICLE GRAPHIC

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998


                             1775 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                   November 05, 1998, Thursday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Earnings

SOURCE: Staff

BODY:

   Comfort Systems reported a strong third quarter with some of its best gains
in the Midwest. Hotel, motel and apartment work made its Atlas Air Conditioning
of Houston one of the strongest units companywide. Internal growth and
acquisitions brought annualized revenues to about $ 925 million.

    <PRE> Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 232,381,000 97,454,000

   Net income 11,287,000 6,493,000

   Per share 0.33 0.24


    Comfort Systems USA is a Houston-based consolidator of commercial and
industrial heating, ventilation and air conditioning companies.




    Oceaneering International posted an increase in earnings and sales in the
second quarter of its 1999 fiscal year due to benefits from its oil-field
capital expansion program, increasing the company's deepwater and subsea
completion business.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1999 1998


    Revenues 110,042,000 90,578,000

   Net income 7,895,000 6,714,000

   Per share 0.34 0.28


    Oceaneering provides engineering services and equipment to customers that
operate in marine, space and other harsh environments.




    Cliffs Drilling Co. posted improved third-quarter sales and earnings as the
company benefited from the expansion of its rig fleet, improved daily rig rental
rates and increased business in its engineering services business. The current
quarter includes $ 1.2 million of net after-tax costs related to the accelerated
vesting of restricted stock related to the merger with R&B Falcon Corp.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 94,506,000 68,120,000

   Net income 14,577,000 12,291,000

   Per share (basic) 0.92 0.80

   Per share (diluted) 0.91 0.79


    Cliffs Drilling is an offshore drilling contractor.




    Nuevo Energy Co. said its third-quarter net loss was due to low oil prices
and higher dry-hole expenses. The company had a one-time gain in the quarter of
$ 4.1 million.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 65,966,000 82,120,000

   Net income (11,245,000) 352,000

   Per share (0.57) 0.02


    (Figures in parentheses are losses.)


    Nuevo Energy is an independent oil and gas company.




    Cal Dive International posted higher sales and earnings as the company's
growing fleet of dynamically positioned, deepwater vessels brought in new sales
and generated strong customer demand.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 42,913,000 28,859,000

   Net income 7,577,000 3,983,000

   Per share (basic) 0.52 0.28

   Per share (diluted) 0.51 0.27


    Cal Dive International is a subsea service contractor to the energy industry
that operates a large fleet of dive support vessels in the Gulf of Mexico.




    Seitel Inc. posted an increase in third-quarter sales and net income on its
strong seismic operations. The third quarter of 1997 included a net gain of 73
cents per diluted share from the operations and sale of Seitel's former unit,
Eagle Geophysical.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 38,332,000 30,793,000

   Net income 6,288,000 21,696,000

   Per share (basic) 0.28 1.00

   Per share (diluted) 0.28 0.98


    Seitel markets seismic data and equipment to energy companies. It also
participates in oil and gas exploration and development projects.




    Telescape International reports that revenues in its third quarter exceeded
those for all of the 1997 calendar year. Included in the 1998 results is a full
provision for federal income taxes, while the year earlier reflects a tax
benefit from the utilization of net operating tax loss carry-forwards.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 36,529,000 12,192,000

   Net income 869,000 1,202,000

   Per share (basic) 0.16 0.31

   Per share (diluted) 0.11 0.15


    Telescape International is a multinational long-distance telecommunications
carrier.




    Swift Energy Co. reported a third-quarter net loss due to noncash
write-downs on its oil and gas properties.


    Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 24,558,000 17,896,000

   Net income (57,431,000) 4,686,000

   Per share (basic) (3.50) 0.29

   Per share (diluted) (3.50) 0.27


    (Figures in parentheses are losses.)


    Swift Energy is an independent oil and gas company.




    GeneMedicine reported a net loss and greater expenses due to an expansion of
research in genetic vaccines and clinical developments in cancer.


   Qtr. to Sept. 30 1998 1997


    Revenues 1,331,369 1,526,143

   Net income (3,635,938) (2,979,792)

   Per share (0.25) (0.22)


    (Figures in parentheses are losses.)


    GeneMedicine of The Woodlands, which recently announced an agreement to
merge with MegaBios Corp. in California, develops nonviral gene therapy products
to treat or prevent serious diseases. </PRE>








LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998


                             1776 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 1, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: WU SCIENTISTS MAKE STRIDES AGAINST CANCER IN WOMEN;
THEY REPORT ON GENETIC CLUES AT DENVER MEETING

BYLINE: William Allen; Post-Dispatch Science Writer

DATELINE: DENVER

BODY:


   Washington University gene hunters have made significant strides in
understanding how glitches in the human genetic code cause three of the most
common cancers among women.

   The scientists reported recent discoveries on the genetics of cervical,
ovarian and uterine cancer last week at the annual meeting of the American
Society of Human Genetics, in Denver.

   In one report, the researchers said they found information that is key to
developing a test to predict a woman's susceptibility to endometrial ca ncer, a
form of uterine cancer.

   Others reported homing in on the genes that cause cervical and ovarian
cancers. This work could in a few years improve the accuracy of Pap smear tests
and other techniques for detecting cancers common to women.

   "Our ultimate aim is to provide better health care for women," said Daniela
Gerhard, who was among those from the university's School of Medicine who
presented new findings at the meeting.

   Said another, Dr. Janet Rader: "Understanding some of the frequent and
consistent changes in the genome can lead us to markers for disease." That, in
turn, can lead to better screening tests for cancer.

   Such tests will be important because a woman who knows she's susceptible to
cancer could work with her doctor to avoid problems by changing her diet and
having more checkups. Perhaps one day she may be able to undergo therapy to
repair the defective genes.

   The Washington University findings were among more than 2,000 reports at the
meeting by scientists from around the world. Many of the reports focused on
cancers that are common to women.

   In all, about 4,400 scientists attended the meeting. Their work is part of an
international scientific effort to understand the human genome - the genetic
code hidden in our genes.

   Genes are the basic units of heredity, embedded within the long, twisting,
threadlike "double-helix" strands of DNA. They form a kind of complex
biochemical Morse code containing the messages of life in each of our bodies.

   A copy of the genome exists in each cell. Like a blueprint, it contains all
the instructions needed to build and run the body.

   Our estimated 100,000 genes are embedded in 23 pairs of chromosomes. We get
one copy of each chromosome from both parents. These genes largely determine how
we develop, what we look like and what diseases we get.

   The worldwide scientific effort to understand the genome has two major
thrusts.

   Some scientists, in the so-called Human Genome Project, are racing to
decipher the code. Others, like the researchers meeting in Denver, are applying
this new information in the front-line quest to understand and conquer many of
the estimated 4,000 genetic diseases in humans.

   Scientists hope to finish the deciphering effort by 2003. The health
applications will trickle out in the years ahead.

   When genes are flawed, they can cause cancer, heart disease, diabetes,
Huntington's disease, cystic fibrosis and other major diseases. The roots of
some of these diseases lie in one gene, while in others they lie in a complex
interaction between one or more genes and such environmental factors as diet and
smoking.

   In recent years, researchers have found more than 100 disease genes,
including some of those for breast cancer and colon cancer. Simple blood tests
screen for some of these diseases.

Homing in

   The Washington University researchers are among the world's leaders in doing
the slow, careful science required to understand where cancer genes are located
on chromosomes, how they work and how to detect them. The complicated nature of
cancer also complicates the work.

   Cancers are the result of a long series of triggering events and responses in
the body. They start with a bit of defective DNA, and end with the uncontrolled
growth of a tumor. In between is a biochemical chess game as complex as life
itself.

   Gerhard, a molecular geneticist, is trying to pinpoint a gene that suppresses
development of cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is the world's fifth most common
cancer. In the United States, about 13,700 women will be diagnosed this year
with invasive cervical cancer, according to the American Cancer Society. About
4,900 women will die from it.

   When the suppressor gene is absent, tumors can develop, Gerhard and her
colleagues believe.

   They traced the location of the gene by examining genetic material from tumor
cells and looking for areas where a portion of the chromosome has been deleted
in a significant number of patients.

   Previously, Gerhard and her colleagues had traced the gene to a part of
chromosome No. 6 called the short arm, still a relatively long string of DNA.

   But on Wednesday, they reported narrowing the search to a smaller section of
the chromosome. Their study focused on tumor cells from 110 patients with
cervical cancer.

   The researchers also ruled out one of the dozen or so genes in that section
as the culprit, a significant step forward. The gene was found not to function
in the cervix.

   Once they locate the target gene, they will try to learn what it does and
incorporate that information into the Pap smear test.

Genetic susceptibility

   On Thursday, Rosalind Neuman, Rader and others reported a key finding about
the risk of developing cervical cancer. Neuman is a mathematical geneticist who
uses statistical tools to help gene hunters home in on their targets. Rader is a
gynecological oncologist, specializing in cancers common to women.

   The researchers assessed the importance of two factors in causing cervical
cancer. One is the presence of certain types of a cervical virus known as human
papillomavirus. The second is a certain form of a suspect gene on chromosome No.
6 - a different section of the chromosome than focused on by Gerhard.

   They studied DNA from 96 women with cervical cancer and their parents.

   Put simply, they determined that women with cervical cancer and some
high-risk types of the virus were more likely to have received the suspect gene
from their parents than they would have gotten it simply by chance.

   The discovery is important because women found to have both the virus and the
suspect gene - but who had not yet developed cervical cancer - could avoid other
risk factors and still contract the cancer.

"We would want to follow them closely," Neuman said.

   Also Thursday, Rader joined with colleagues in St. Louis, England and Italy
to report new insights on genes that suppress ovarian cancer, one of the leading
causes of cancer death among women. An estimated 25,400 U.S. women will be
diagnosed with ovarian cancer this year; 14,500 women will die from it.

   A complex pattern of genetic glitches on the short arm of chromosome No. 3
suggest that several genes are involved in the onset of ovarian cancer, the
research team reported. The scientists highlighted three regions of the
chromosome where gene hunters should focus their search.

Gene silencing

   A team led by Paul Goodfellow reported Friday on a significant new clue about
the genetic damage that leads to endometrial cancer, the most common women's
cancer except for breast cancer. Goodfellow is a molecular geneticist in
Washington University's School of Medicine.

   About 36,000 U.S. women will be diagnosed this year with cancer in the body
of the uterus, usually endometrial cancer. About 6,300 women will die from it,
the American Cancer Society estimates.

   The survival rate for endometrial cancer after surgery is good. The
researchers study it because it's still a major health problem and because they
believe it will reveal important information about many kinds of cancers common
among women.

   To understand Goodfellow's report, it helps to know that DNA naturally
sustains damage as it continuously copies itself during the normal process of
cell division. It's no surprise that a perfect copy isn't always made of the 3
billion chemical units, or base pairs, in the human genome.

   The problem is this: Sometimes the damage triggers uncontrolled growth of a
cell. That, in turn, leads to a tumor.

   Nature's answer to this problem is to embed in the genome many genes whose
responsibility is to repair the damage before the cell goes haywire.

   But sometimes there's another problem: The repair genes also become damaged.

   Scientists know that the inability to repair damage is a common trigger for
endometrial cancers. But they understood little about why repair genes failed to
do their work.

   Goodfellow's group discovered an unusual form of this "gene silencing" in
uterine cancer. They found that although the repair gene is intact, it is shut
down by changes in the code sequences of nearby DNA.

   "In most women, the repair gene is silenced as a result of chemical
modification of control sequences," Goodfellow said.

   On the other hand, some women inherit abnormal DNA repair genes. This puts
them at risk for developing endometrial cancer.

   One of the aims of Goodfellow's research is to develop a genetic test that
distinguishes between those women who develop tumors because of inherited DNA
repair problems and women whose tumors develop because of the gene silencing.

   Family members of women with the inherited form of endometrial cancer are
also at high risk for colon cancer, Goodfellow and scientists from Toronto
reported at the meeting.

   That means the test might also help identify both men and women at risk for
colon cancer.

***

Basic facts about the human genome

   To understand the human genome and research on genetic diseases it helps to
keep a few facts in mind:

* Your body has 100 trillion cells.

   * With a few exceptions, each cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes - one ch
romosome in each pair inherited from each parent.

   * The 23 pairs of chromosomes are home to an estimated 100,000 genes, the
basic unit of heredity. Put simply, genes are packets of DNA that tell cells how
to behave.

   * Six feet of DNA are packaged in the chromosomes of each human cell. It can
be that long in such a small place only because it's extremely thin.

   * The biochemical code embedded in DNA is formed by a pattern of chemical
units called base pairs. The human genome - which contains all the instructions
needed to build and run the body - has 3 billion base pairs.

   * If printed out, the information encoded in the base pairs would fill a
thousand telephone books of a thousand pages each. A single misplaced pair is
enough to cause disease.

Source: National Human Genome Research Institute

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998


                             1777 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                    November 1, 1998, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy for hearts; Competition: Scientists and biotechnology
companies are in a high-stakes race to treat heart disease with gene therapies
that stimulate blood vessel growth.

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   It's been almost a year since Dr. Ronald G. Crystal and Dr. Todd Rosengart of
New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center opened the chest of a 60-year-old man
and did what no surgeon had done before: They injected a gene-loaded solution
into the man's heart in the hope of stimulating blood vessel growth.

   The goal of the pioneering treatment is to alleviate a recurrence of the pain
and heart damage that can result from blocked coronary arteries.

   Aside from making medical history, the doctors touched off a crowded and
intense race to develop gene therapies for heart and vascular diseases.

   Almost a dozen biotechnology companies have entered this high-stakes race,
and gene therapy experts think even more will begin cardiovascular-related gene
or protein therapy programs in the next several years.

   The field includes two Maryland companies, privately held GenVec Inc. of
Rockville and Vascular Genetics Inc., which is partly owned and bankrolled by
publicly held Human Genome Sciences Inc., also of Rockville.

   Unheard of a few years ago, gene-based drugs have emerged as one of the most
promising the therapies for treating heart and vascular diseases. Some experts
believe gene therapies for heart disease are most likely to be the first to be
mass commercialized.

   The aim of the treatments is to use normally occurring genes to stimulate the
body to produce the proteins responsible for blood vessel growth, known as
angiogenesis.

   The body produces the proteins in response to artery blockages and heart
damage, said Crystal, but in quantities too small to benefit those suffering
from heart disease.

   By getting the body to grow new vessels, it is hoped that the heart will be
spared further damage from blocked arteries and other conditions that rob it of
oxygen and other nutrients.

   Some experts are referring to this experimental treatment as a "biological
bypass."

   If human experiments such as those conducted by Crystal, Rosengart and others
continue to show promise, gene therapy for heart disease could revolutionize
cardiology, experts say.

   "I believe this could potentially provide a quantum leap in how people with
cardiovascular diseases are treated in the future," said Paul Fischer, president
and chief executive officer of GenVec.

   At stake is a huge potential market. Heart disease remains the leading cause
of death annually in the United States.

   More than 58 million Americans have cardiovascular disease, according to the
American Heart Association.

   Almost a third of them, 14 million, have coronary heart disease, a
debilitating condition that can lead to heart attack and death. Heart disease is
considered epidemic among Westernized nations, so the worldwide potential market
is much larger.

   The heart association estimates that more than $ 171 billion is spent
annually in the United States to treat people with heart and vascular troubles.

   Biotechnology company executives say it's too early to calculate how much
gene therapies for the heart might cost if they are approved for
commercialization by government regulators, including the Food and Drug
Administration.

   Also, it will be several years before company researchers have a clear idea
of what types of heart and circulatory conditions the treatments might best
treat and hence the size of the potential market.

   But there are indications of how valuable the pioneering technology is:

   Drug giant Warner-Lambert Co. struck a deal with GenVec in September 1997 to
license rights to its BIOBYPASS cardiovascular gene therapy. The deal is worth
up to $ 100 million if the treatment is approved for marketing. Warner-Lambert
has paid GenVec $ 13.5 million and purchased $ 2 million of the company's stock.

   Human Genome Sciences entered a joint venture with St. Elizabeth's Medical
Center in Boston and Cato Holding, a Research Triangle, N.C.-based company in
November 1997 to launch Vascular Genetics Inc. Human Genome agreed to supply $
600,000 in start-up funds. Under the venture, Human Genome will assist Dr.
Jeffrey Isner, a cardiologist and gene treatment pioneer at St. Elizabeth's
Medical Center, in developing a gene treatment for vascular disease.

   German pharmaceutical giant Schering AG bought a 20 percent equity stake in
Collateral Therapeutics Inc. of San Diego in May 1996 for $ 5.7 million and
agreed to underwrite $ 5 million annually in research and development costs in
exchange for rights to market GENERX, Collateral's leading gene treatment for
coronary heart disease. Collateral also gets $ 20.5 million for regulatory
approval to market angiogenic gene treatments and sales royalty payments.

   Surgical instrument maker Boston Scientific Inc. of Natick, Mass., bought
privately held CardioGene Therapeutics in July for an undisclosed amount.

   At the time of the purchase, Art Rosenthal, chief development officer for
Boston Scientific, said the company believes "gene therapy is the next frontier
for treating patients suffering from blocked or completely occluded arteries, as
well as a host of cardiac problems."

   Christopher J. Reinhard, chief operating and financial officer at Collateral
Therapeutics, agrees. He believes the market opportunity is exceptionally strong
given that heart surgery and other cardiovascular procedures are widespread and
can be very expensive.

   High cost for surgery

   For example, open-heart surgery and follow-up care can cost more than $
40,000, he said.

   GenVec's Fischer thinks managed care will embrace gene treatments for the
heart and possibly encourage their use if the treatments are shown to delay or
eliminate the need for costly surgical procedures.

   "There is so much cost pressure in medicine now that any new therapy that
comes along that can improve a patient's quality of life while also lowering the
cost of overall treatment will be looked at seriously by managed care," said
Fischer.

   Fischer expects effective gene treatments to be as readily accepted in
cardiology as surgical stents -- small tubes inserted to keep arteries opened --
which entered the market a few years ago.

   The market for those devices has grown into an industry with $ 1 billion in
annual sales, according to industry estimates.

   Crystal, one of the pioneers in cardiovascular angiogenesis, believes gene
treatment for heart and vascular diseases holds such strong promise that it
could have broad medical applications and could eventually eliminate the need
for some patients to undergo surgery or follow-up procedures to unclog arteries
that have become blocked again.

   "I'm of the opinion that we could see this type of treatment used as a solo
procedure or in conjunction with surgery," said Crystal. "It will most likely
depend a lot on the patient and their particular circumstances. It would give
interventional cardiologists alternatives they don't have now."

   GenVec's gene treatment, called BIOBYPASS, was used by Crystal and Rosengart
on Dec. 17, 1997, to treat the 60-year-old heart patient.

   Since then, they have treated 14 other patients with coronary artery disease
(heart arteries obstructed by plaque) or peripheral vascular disease, a painful,
sometimes debilitating circulatory condition in the limbs, under a clinical
trial sponsored by GenVec and New York-Cornell Medical Center.

   Crystal, a professor of internal medicine at Cornell Medical College, says
the results of the experiment are "very encouraging" but wouldn't give more
details.

   Crystal will make a formal presentation about the human trial's results in
Dallas next week when cardiologists, cardiovascular surgeons and executives from
dozens of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies convene at the annual
American Heart Association conference.

   The physician, a former gene researcher at the National Institutes of Health
in Bethesda, expects a larger human study of GenVec's treatment to begin by
April.

   Catheter system

   The treatment is administered in three ways. GenVec's therapy is injected
directly into the heart during surgery or into limb veins. Collateral has
developed a catheter system that it hopes can administer the treatment in about
20 minutes in a doctor's office.

   Brian Henry, a spokesman for the heart association, said Crystal's
presentation and several others concerning angiogenesis are expected to draw
strong interest at next week's conference.

   "This is definitely an area that is generating a lot of excitement among
interventional cardiologists," said Henry. "There's a strong feeling that this
will be the next big thing in cardiology."

   At least six other biotechnology companies have begun human studies of their
gene treatments, including Human Genome's Vascular Genetics, Collateral
Therapeutics and Genentech of South San Francisco, Calif.

   All of the studies are to assess the safety of the experimental gene
treatments and gathering preliminary data on effectiveness.

   Cell growth stimulated

   Most, if not all, involve the use of protein-stimulating genes that are a
vascular endothidial growth factor, meaning they stimulate the growth of blood
vessel cells, or a fibroblast growth factor, meaning they stimulate the growth
of connective tissue cells.

   One question researchers must clarify if they are to move ahead with larger
human studies is whether the treatments stimulate unwanted blood vessel growth
elsewhere, such as in the eyes, or in cancerous tumors, which use blood vessels
to grow.

   Despite such hurdles, Crystal is optimistic that the technology will find its
way into mainstream use in the near future.

   "One of the things I've learned again and again in biology is that it is a
lot easier to build things than to suppress them," he said. "That's why gene
therapy for angiogenesis makes a lot of sense. We're helping the body do what
comes naturally."

   Pub Date: 11/01/98

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, RICHARD LOBELL : SPECIAL TO THE SUN, A medical first: Dr.
Ronald G. Crystal (right) and Dr. Todd Rosengart use gene therapy at New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.; ILLUSTRATION, JENNIFER IMES : SUN STAFF,
ANGIOGENIC GENE THERAPY; PHOTO, LARRY C. PRICE : SUN STAFF, Cutting edge: Paul
Fischer, president and chief executive officer of GenVec, says the new therapies
promise a quantum leap in treating heart disease.; CHART, BURNS MCCLELLAN INC.,
COMPANY REPORTS, CROWDED FIELD CHASES HEART TREATMENTS

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998


                             1778 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1998 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           October 28, 1998 Wednesday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-9:1,6,7,8; B-13:2,4; B-11:3,5

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: San Diego's contributions in the fight against breast cancer

BYLINE: Karen Klause

BODY:

   In 1988 San Diego resident Jocelyn Davis became one of the thousands of women
diagnosed each year with breast cancer.

   Within months, the cancer spread to her neck and underarms, leaving doctors
little choice but to surgically remove the cancerous tissue. When that failed to
halt the cancer, Davis chose to participate in an experimental cancer treatment
protocol conducted by the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center and administered through
the Donna and David Long Center for Cancer Treatment at Grossmont Hospital.
Although still not cancer free, Davis' survival more than 10 years after her
initial diagnosis is testament to the advancements that have occurred in cancer
research over the past decade.

   Yet, in spite of our recent successes in diagnosing and treating this
disease, breast cancer remains the second leading cancer among women in the
United States. This year, experts predict that more than 178,700 cases of breast
cancer will be reported, making it the most frequently diagnosed non-skin
malignancy in the United States among women.

   Furthermore, it's estimated that one in eight American women will develop
breast cancer in their lifetime, with approximately 43,500 deaths expected to be
attributed to the disease in 1998. Women of non-child bearing age have the
highest incidence of breast cancer, although the disease has been shown to
affect women and men of all ages. Diet, lifestyle, the environment and family
history all affect breast cancer incidence rates. Like heart disease, diabetes
and other forms of cancer, breast cancer is among the so-called "diseases of
affluence," which are linked to an overnourished and sedentary lifestyle.

   A growing body of evidence suggests that eating a low-fat, high-fiber diet
can significantly reduce the risk of getting breast cancer. Studies have shown
that early diagnosis and treatment of the disease is critical since breast
cancer often metastasizes to other parts of the body. Frequent self-examinations
and regular mammograms are two effective forms of breast cancer detection.

   If caught early, breast cancer is highly treatable.

   Five-year survival rates are highest among those patients diagnosed in the
early stages of the disease. Typically, breast cancer is treated through
surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and/or hormone therapy.

   Depending on the patient's specific case, one or a combination of treatments
may be recommended.

   While each of these treatments has been shown effective, many produce
unpleasant physical side effects, as well as extensive psychological impact on
patients and their families. A number of San Diego area medical device and
biotechnology companies, including Digirad Corp. and Ligand Pharmaceuticals
Inc., as well as research centers such as The Burnham Institute and the Sidney
Kimmel Cancer Center are working to develop and test next-generation screening
devices and drugs that will both help prevent and treat breast cancer.

   All are members of the regional trade association BIOCOM/San Diego. Digirad
Corp. has recently introduced the world's first solid-state nuclear medicine
imaging device that promises to replace the more than 3,000-pound conventional
photomultiplier gamma cameras used today in nuclear medicine applications.

   The solid-state portable lightweight imager provides doctors with greater
resolution, resulting in sharper images for diagnosis.

   The compact design offers greater clinical utility and allows physicians to
obtain medial breast images to help diagnose difficult to find tumors. Ligand
Pharmaceuticals, a specialty biopharmaceutical company, is doing its part to
improve drug treatments for breast cancer.

   Ligand scientists have found that the company's retinoid compound, Targretin,
caused complete regression in 72 percent of established primary breast cancer
tumors in research rats.

   Further in vivo studies showed that Targretin, when added to tamoxifen
therapy, caused a complete or partial regression in 94 percent of
tamoxifen-resistant primary breast tumors vs. a 33 percent complete or partial
regression in tamoxifen-resistant primary breast tumors that continued on
high-dose tamoxifen but did not receive Targretin.

   Ligand plans to launch a Phase II trial with Targretin in the near future to
evaluate the activity of Targretin in advanced breast cancer patients. Other
innovative approaches to breast cancer treatment are being tested at the Sidney
Kimmel Cancer Center and The Burnham Institute, nonprofit research institutes
dedicated to the development of advanced biological cancer treatments, such as
gene therapy, vaccine therapy and immunotherapy. Founded in 1990 by Allan H.
Goodman, Thomas A. Shiftan and Ivor Royston, the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center has
emerged as an internationally recognized cancer treatment facility.

   The center is one of the most technically advanced of its kind.
World-renowned for its cell and molecular biology research, The Burnham
Institute is a highly innovative research center dedicated to developing
effective cancer therapies.

   Led by President and CEO Erkki Ruoslahti and Scientific Director John C.
Reed, the La Jolla-based research center is the source of clinical trials that
include drugs that specifically target the blood supply that tumor growth
depends on.

   Mouse data, recently published in Science, show that The Burnham Institute
targeting approach can increase the efficacy of anti-cancer drugs and reduce
their toxicity.

   These impressive animal data are being translated into human treatments by
pharmaceutical companies. In light of the tremendous commitment to clinical
research and innovation by BIOCOM/San Diego's member companies and affiliated
research institutions, patients like Jocelyn Davis are able to look forward to
each new day with a sense of hope and pride in knowing they are winning the
battle against breast cancer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOBY: KLAUSE is president and chief executive officer of Digirad
Corp., a San Diego-based company, and also serves on the BIOCOM/San Diego board
of directors.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1779 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 28, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE, Pg. E2, DR. PAUL DONOHUE COLUMN

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY OFFERS PROMISE IN FUTURE FOR SICKLE CELL ANEMIA

BYLINE: Dr. Paul Donohue

BODY:


   Dear Dr. Donohue: Please write about sickle cell anemia. I have a great
grandson who has it. Is there any cure for it? He is not black.

   Sickle cell anemia is an inherited deficiency of red blood cells. Anemias are
nothing more than too few red blood cells.

   Mother and father each give one gene to an affected child. The mother and
father, having only one gene, are carriers. They do not have the anemia.

   When oxygen levels drop in a sickle cell patient, red blood cells assume the
shape of a sickle. Sickle cells plug up small arteries and lead to the death of
the tissues and organs supplied by those arteries. Skin ulcers can appear.
Kidneys might malfunction. Sections of bone often die and give rise to attacks
of intolerable pain.

   In addition, sickle cells have a short life span. Bone marrow cannot replace
the prematurely dying cells with new red cells. Anemia results.

   Sickle cell children have a tough row to hoe. They tire more quickly than
their unaffected friends. They suffer episodes of great pain when sickle cells
cause tissue death.

Bone marrow transplants cure the illness in a selected few.

   The drug hydroxyurea often controls symptoms for protracted periods. Some
doctors worry about long-term treatment with this drug. If there are bad side
effects, that information will be forthcoming.

   Gene therapy holds a bright promise for the future, but such therapy is years
off.

   African-Americans are the largest ethnic group affected by sickle cell.
However, the sickle gene pops up in people of eastern Mediterranean stock, Asian
Indians and some Arabians.

   Dear Dr. Donohue: My family and I love asparagus but have a question about
it: Why does our urine smell so awful after we eat it? Does asparagus give any
health benefits?

   Asparagus contains sulfur compounds that produce a malodorous urine. Not to
worry. No harm comes from it. Incidentally, onions and garlic can impart a
pungent aroma to urine.

   Asparagus has definite health benefits. It has many B vitamins as well as
vitamins A and C. It's also a source of calcium, potassium, magnesium, zinc and
manganese. Asparagus is a veritable multivitamin, multimineral, natural pill.

   Dear Dr. Donohue: Please let me know if lutein slows up macular degeneration.
Does it help or hurt me by taking it?

   Lutein is a carotenoid, a substance found in many fruits and green, leafy
vegetables. Carotenoids prevent cells from oxidation, a process equivalent to
rusting. Macular degeneration is an all too common accompaniment of aging. The
macula is the most sensitive part of the retina. It provides sharp images in the
central field of vision and it provides vision for closeup work, such as reading
and sewing. Macular degeneration is a rusting of the macula.

   The lutein story arose from a study that questioned older people about their
diets. People who had eaten hefty amounts of green, leafy vegetables, such as
spinach and collard greens, did not suffer the ravages of macular degeneration
as often as people who did not eat those vegetables.

   The study's investigator cautioned people not to jump into a frenzy for
lutein before more information confirmed the effectiveness of lutein as a
prevention for macular degeneration.

   However, it does people no harm to implement their diet with a generous
supply of green, leafy vegetables and yellow, red or orange fruits and
vegetables. The latter also contain lutein. Such a diet is one recommended for
blood pressure control and heart health.

   The short answer to your question is that insufficient evidence exists to
state unequivocally that lutein can prevent macular degeneration.

   Dr. Donohue regrets that he is unable to answer individual letters, but he
will incorporate them in his column whenever possible. Readers may write him at
P.O. Box 5539, Riverton, N.J. 08077-5539.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1998


                             1780 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                           October 28, 1998 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY COMPANIES

BODY:

   AHP developing seeds   American Home Products Corp. said it will work with
Zeneca Group PLC and with United Grain Growers Ltd. and AgriPro Seeds Inc. to
develop wheat and canola seeds that can tolerate a class of American Home's
herbicides.

    The Zeneca pact could result in new varieties of canola seed by 2001 that
can withstand American Home's imidazolinone herbicides. Those herbicides,
including the Pursuit and Odyssey brands sold by American Home's American
Cyanamid unit, work by targeting enzymes found only in plants.

    In a separate pact, American Home and Canada's United Grain Growers and
AgriPro will work on herbicide-tolerant wheat seeds. These could be available in
the U.S. by 2001 and Canada by 2003. American Home didn't disclose the financial
terms of the agreement. A variety of imidazolinone-tolerant canola, called Smart
Canola, already is available.

     AlliedSignal's venture

    AlliedSignal Inc., the maker of aerospace and auto parts, and chemicals,
said it will form a joint venture with three Korean companies to produce fibers
such as polyester and nylon in South Korea. Terms weren't disclosed.

    The joint venture, which includes AlliedSignal, Kohap Ltd., S.K. Chemicals
Ltd. and Sam Yang Corp., will market the fibers produced by the four companies.
Morris Township-based AlliedSignal will have a majority interest in the venture
and Sam Yang will have the majority interest among the Korean partners,
Bloomberg News reported.

    The fibers are used for making such items as fabric, rope and for hose
reinforcement. The four companies will continue to own and operate their
facilities and AlliedSignal will provide the technology to change and expand the
product lines.

     Curtiss-Wright buyback

    Curtiss-Wright Corp. said Monday that its board of directors has authorized
the repurchase of up to 300,000 shares or about 3 percent of its common stock.

   Purchases will be made from time to time in the open market or privately
negotiated transactions, depending on market and other conditions.

     Schering licensing pact

    Schering-Plough Corp. will pay as much as $40 million for a license to use
one of Genzyme Corp.'s genes in a potential lung-cancer treatment.

    Under the agreement, Schering, based in Madison, will make a $5 million
up-front payment and could pay more than $35 million in patent, product
development and sales milestone fees, for worldwide rights to make and sell
therapeutic gene therapy products using Genzyme's p53 gene.

    Early this year, Genzyme, based in Cambridge, Mass., signed a research and
development pact, valued at $80 million, with Schering involving gene therapy as
a potential lung-cancer treatment.

    Schering plans to use Genzyme's lipid gene-delivery systems with six
Schering genes. Genzyme, a biotechnology company, has developed systems designed
to transport particular genes to tumor cells. Genzyme will combine its lipid
gene delivery systems with several of Schering-Plough's proprietary genes to
further develop gene therapy products.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1781 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company
                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 25, 1998, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Brain Institute has researchers thinking as one

BYLINE: BARRY KLEIN

DATELINE: GAINESVILLE

BODY:


   The University of Florida's spanking new, $ 60-million Brain Institute is,
above all, a technological wonder.

   The six-story building houses a super-computer, two clean rooms for gene
therapy and a simulated human patient that can be killed or resuscitated at a
doctor's whim.

   The institute is about to take possession of a medical imaging machine so
powerful it can generate a magnetic field 234,000 times greater than Earth's.
That's strong enough to allow scientists to capture the image of a single
molecule.

   The 250 doctors and researchers affiliated with the institute, which
officially opened last week, hope someday to cure many forms of paralysis.  They
also want to reverse Alzheimer's disease, control epileptic seizures and  treat
alcoholism.

   "There's never been anything like this in Florida, or the nation," said
William Luttge, the Brain Institute's director. "This is beyond state of the
art."

   Officials want to clear up possible misconceptions. There are no famous
brains on display here. And no, the institute doesn't do anything to boost UF
students' brain power, not even for final exams.

   What the institute does is create a unique partnership between scientists
and medical doctors whose mutual goal is to treat some of society's most
devastating problems.

   The National Institutes of Health said one in five Americans suffers some
form of brain disability during their lives. Treating those problems costs an
estimated $ 500-billion a year.

   "More has been learned about the function of the nervous system in the last
10 years than in all of history," says UF President John Lombardi. "We can  only
imagine the advances of knowledge that will occur here in the years to  come."

   The institute has existed since 1992, though without a building or much of
its high-tech hardware. The fact that it still garnered $ 25-million in
research funding last year is a testament to the quality of the faculty,  Luttge
said, and the enthusiasm generated by its multidisciplinary approach.

   It's a simple concept: By having scientists and doctors work in close
proximity, officials think they can break down walls between disciplines and
generate new ideas.

   All of the institute's work, Luttge said, is geared toward practical
applications.

   Researchers already have transplanted fetal spinal cord tissue into
laboratory animals with spinal injuries, allowing some to regain near-normal
movement. That's an essential step on the road to possible spinal cord
regeneration in humans.

   Doctors have developed new surgical techniques that vastly reduce pain and
recovery time.

   Ten years ago, a patient getting disk surgery would have spent five to  seven
days in the hospital with a large incision in his back.

   "Now we do the same operation with a 15-millimeter incision, no muscle
dissection, and you can go home within four hours of the surgery," said Dr.
Richard Fessler, who helped design the institute's spinal cord injury repair
lab.

   A good example of the value of shared knowledge is the radio surgery  biology
lab.

   Researchers there have patented a machine that guides beams of radiation
into brain tumors without touching nearby healthy tissue.

   The team that put it together includes a neurosurgeon and a physicist. Also
helping were engineering students who specialize in the use of radiation and
mathematicians who hope to decode the electrical information that goes to the
brain.

   As befits a university, the institute is playing a major role in medical
education.

   Doctors from Argentina, China, Brazil and Japan received training last week
in the spinal cord repair lab.

   The human patient simulator is used to teach anesthesiologists how to avoid
disasters. In a demonstration last week for reporters - who were invited to
poke inside the brains of human cadaver heads - doctors showed what would
happen to a patient if the anesthesiologist made an error. Every monitor on  the
simulator - measuring heart rate, blood gases, brain activity and more -
registered a remarkably realistic death.

   Making all of the work possible is the building's sophisticated
communications network.

   Institute physicians can view brain scans of patients being treated next
door at Shands Teaching Hospital by calling up the scans on their office
computers.

   A teacher in the neurosurgical training laboratory can project a brain
dissection onto multiple computer screens, or beam it live to other classrooms
in the building.

   Some of the innovations devised by faculty have been licensed by the
university and are bringing in revenue.

   At least 68 of the human patient simulators, for example, have been sold  for
$ 150,000 each.

   Luttge says he expects that trend to increase.

   "Industry is clearly interested in us inventing better ways of doing
things," he said. "That's what universities are for."



Text for chart not provided for electronic library. Please see microfilm.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); BLACK AND WHITE CHART;
COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; The $ 60-million Brain Institute at the
University of Florida in Gainesville was dedicated Thursday. (ran CITY & STATE);
William Luttge, director of the Brain Institute, applaudes during opening
ceremonies. (ran CITY & STATE); Chart listing major brain and nervous system
diseases and total cases in the U.S. (ran CITY & STATE, TAMPA & STATE); The $
60-million Brain Institute at the University of Florida in Gainesville was
dedicated Thursday. (ran TAMPA & STATE)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998


                             1782 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                    October 23, 1998, Friday 2 STAR EDITION

SECTION: HOUSTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Houston 'fixture' makes film debut

SOURCE: Staff

BYLINE: MAXINE MESINGER

BODY:

   MISS Moonlight's memos: Steven Owsley's feature flick, "Cottonmouth," now
shooting in Houston, will be filming at the Petroleum Club next Wednesday and
Thursday, and they've asked assistant manager Solomon Lancaster to appear in it.
That will be extra special for Lancaster, because he retires at the end of that
week after 45 years with the Petroleum Club. When he joined the club in 1953, it
was atop the Rice Hotel. It's now on the 43rd floor of the Exxon Building, and
Lancaster will greet members for the last time the night of Oct. 31. He has been
something of a fixture there, greeting people at the end of the hall and
escorting them to the correct dining room for whatever function they're
attending. He will be greatly missed.  . . .  Investment man Steven Herzog and
regional sales manager for Continental Airlines Marty Storti are engaged and
planning a spring merger. Marty's parents are the William Stortis of San
Antonio, and Steven's are Houstonians Dorene and Frank Herzog.  . . .  Food Arts
magazine's current issue features Houston restaurant Arcodoro in a five-page
color spread. It shows off owners Lori and Efisio Farris' newly expanded lounge,
Grappaita & Cigar, named after Arcodoro's trademark lemon-lime-brandy frozen
cocktail - Italy's answer to the margarita.  . . .

   Regina Rogers was speechless at "A Lifesaving Affair" luncheon recently in
Beaumont. Regina heads it annually in memory of her late mother, Julie Rogers,
who suffered breast cancer some years ago. The program provides free mammograms
for those who cannot afford them, and it was started before Julie Rogers died
(not of breast cancer).  Prominent philanthropist Jon M. Huntsman was this
year's recipient of the first "Spirit of Love" award, presented to him at the
luncheon. It pays tribute to individuals who have exemplified unparalleled
dedication, commitment and spirit in the fight against cancer. Huntsman, a
survivor of prostate cancer, accepted the award, and then in a big surprise
move, he donated $ 100,000 to the mammogram program, "Gift of Life."
Incidentally, Houston artist David Adickes created the award, a beautiful bronze
sculpture.  . . .  The stork market: It's twinfants, a boy and a girl, for Exxon
research scientist Erik Eriksen and wife Lisa. They named them Kenton Blair and
Brinsley Elizabeth, and they make Houston's Ted and Martha Lindgren and Ed
Eriksen of Hendersonville, S.C., grandparents.  . . .

   AT&T hosted a farewell party recently at Blanco's for its longtime public
relations director in Houston, Gail Plumberg, who retired after almost 20 years
with the company. She plans to open her own PR consulting firm, but says she'll
take a few months off before starting to work again. The party turnout was big;
it included people from the Livestock Show and Rodeo, Museum of Fine Arts,
Houston Grand Opera and the Alley Theater, as well as AT&T staffers.  . . .
Betty Edge is giving her Confederate House a supper-club atmosphere on weekends.
She has signed Joe Nettles on piano, David Cawood on muted trumpet and singer
Joe Thomas. There's dancing too.  . . .

   Cornelia and Meredith Long are chairing "Raising the Standard," a black-tie
celebration of the groundbreaking of a new Texas Heart Institute. The evening
will honor Dr. Denton Cooley, founder of THI and currently its president and
surgeon in chief. It will be Nov. 16 at the Westin Galleria Hotel, and Bob
Newhart will be in the entertainment spotlight. The new building, adjacent to
St. Luke's Hospital, will be nine stories and 275,000 square feet. THI has
simply outgrown its quarters of 65,000 square feet. It will contain the full
spectrum of cardiovascular services, including critical and much-needed
laboratory space for research programs in gene therapy, vascular cell biology,
heart failure, heart transplantation, heart assist devices, total artificial
hearts and patient care as well.  . . .







LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998


                             1783 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1998 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            October 23, 1998 Friday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-4

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Fixing defective genes in utero: Ethicists ponder the ultimate outcome

BYLINE: Karen R. Long, RELIGION NEWS SERVICE

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

BODY:

   CLEVELAND -- Take a fetus.

   Fix a lethal gene in utero.

   Alter the inheritance of all that fetus' descendants. The third step in this
proposed sequence is the jaw-dropper.

   For the eight years medical researchers have pursued experimental human gene
therapies -- with very modest results -- all their tinkering was guaranteed to
die with the individual who undertook the risk. Now, Dr. W. French Anderson, a
University of Southern California genetics pioneer, wants to cross this ethical
and generational divide. For two days in late September, Anderson hashed out the
"pre-protocols" of experimental therapies he wants to try on fetuses with two
kinds of catastrophic inherited diseases.

   In each case, his genetic interventions would most likely affect the
chromosomes in the sperm and eggs of his research subjects, altering the DNA of
their future children. "He doesn't expect us to bless or condemn these
pre-protocols at this point," said professor Eric T. Juengst, a bioethicist at
Cleveland's Case Western Reserve University who serves on the federal advisory
committee that is hearing Anderson out.

   "He's committed to having the public understand this field as it evolves, and
to win public support." At best, that support is several years away, Juengst
said.

   "Both of the specific pre-protocols French floated were pretty thoroughly
shredded by the RAC," he said, referring to the Recombinant DNA Advisory
Committee of the National Institutes of Health. In one proposal, Anderson's team
hopes to cure ADA deficiency, a rare immune disease that can require children to
live circumscribed lives in "bubbles."

   In the other, the team would attempt to fix the genetic defect causing alpha
thalassemia, a severe form of anemia, common in Asia, that kills the fetus
before birth. Unknown consequences The technology -- inserting functioning genes
into the rapidly dividing cells of second-trimester fetuses to replace defective
DNA -- contains the possibility of unexpected, downstream consequences for both
the developing fetus and its children.

   Researchers call this kind of experimentation germ-line gene transfer.
"Germ-line gene transfer raises the prospect of passing on genetic changes to
unconsenting, unsuspecting future generations," said professor Thomas H. Murray,
director of the Case Western Reserve University Center for Biomedical Ethics. He
and other scholars also worry that polishing Anderson's technology will
eventually allow doctors to engineer babies for attractive traits, not just cure
disease. Closer at hand is the risk that tampering with the human genome in
utero might create a cascade of serious birth defects, scientists said. "French
clearly sees his allegiance to the children who would be born if not for fatal,
prenatal disease," Juengst said.

   "But people on the committee still think it's likely to go wrong more than
it's likely to work.

   We can't say what will happen to these newly integrated genes in mitosis,
division, development and expression. "One scientist, Dr. Jon Gordon (a
neurobiologist at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City), raised
the problem of insertional mutagenesis.

   That is how a new gene integrated in the wrong place interrupts an existing
gene's function. "If that gene has already done its work in the fetus and has
shut off, that infant will never feel any effect of insertional mutagenesis.

   But its children would be seriously messed up." A much less exotic
technology, in vitro fertilization (IVF), has already saddled many families with
enduring birth defects, said Ronald M. Green, director of the Ethics Institute
at Dartmouth College Medical School. "In Europe and the United States, IVF has
resulted in a great increase in the rate of higher-order multiple births, with
their associated toll of birth defects and prematurity," he said.

   Some describe the sharp increase in the number of infants struggling in
neonatal intensive care units due to these fertility treatments as a new
epidemic. Murray seconded Green's concern: "I think we have big enough problems
with the consequences of IVF right now."

   He said many people also look at the approaching germ-line scenarios and
accuse scientists of "playing God," tampering with the "wisdom of evolution," or
violating the "integrity of the genome." Maxwell J. Mehlman, director of the
CWRU Law-Medicine Center, isn't one. "To me, we play God all the time trying to
avoid illness," he said.

   "If God didn't want us to intervene, he wouldn't give us the tools."
Procrastination Murray, Mehlman and Juengst organized a recent workshop of
scientists, lawyers and scholars to explore the options society might exercise
as germ-line experimentation presses forward. "The problem is this: In germ-line
gene transfer, we seem to have a public policy dominated by procrastination,"
Murray said. A decade ago, researchers assumed they would work out the kinks in
somatic cell gene therapy -- the experimental approach of gene corrections that
die with recipients -- before venturing into germ-line work. The problem is that
somatic cell therapies for such inherited diseases as ADA deficiency and cystic
fibrosis have worked only partially or not at all.

   That led Anderson to propose in utero attempts, when fetal chromosomes are
more apt to respond to his interventions. Anderson argues that fixing a mutation
that causes a catastrophic disease and passing that correction to new
generations would be a benefit, not a risk. But even that assessment is
uncertain.

   Scientists have determined that inheriting one gene for sickle cell anemia
protects an infant against malaria, but inheriting two -- from both mother and
father -- gives the child the disease.

   Likewise, a single mutation for cystic fibrosis may protect a child against
cholera, but inheriting two defects results in disease. "As one of the basic
philosophical questions, we'll have to take a stand about whether a germ-line
gene transfer to eliminate a disease is a risk or a benefit," Juengst said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             1784 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   October 21, 1998, Wednesday ,City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Gene alteration seen as a counter to transplant rejection

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

   A technique for precisely rewriting the intricate coding in genes, combined
with the methods that produced Dolly the cloned sheep, may make it possible to
create animals whose organs could be safely transplanted into humans, Scottish
scientists said yesterday.

    Together, the two techniques should enable scientists for the first time to
easily remove, or "knock out," unwanted traits in livestock by disabling the
appropriate genes, they said. That could include the gene for a marker on cells
of animal organs that triggers a violent response from the human immune system.

    Officials of Roslin Bio-Med Ltd. in Scotland, where the lamb clone Dolly was
produced, made the announcement along with officials of Kimeragen Inc., a
Newtown, Pa., firm that developed the method for rewriting DNA sequences in
genes.

    The method is called "chimeraplasty" or "precise genetic surgery" and relies
on high-quality molecules called "chimeraplasts" that are made by Boston
Biosystems of Bedford. Some specialists call it the genetic equivalent of the
white correcting fluid used with typewriters.

    Chimeraplasty has been a hot topic in scientific circles in recent months.
Researchers say it could have a nearly revolutionary impact on plant and animal
breeding and human gene therapy. But some experimenters have said it does not
always seem to work.

    "We're certainly convinced this is worth exploring, despite the mixed
experiences," said Simon G. Best, chief executive officer of Roslin Bio-Med in a
telephone interview. If it works, "it would be significantly faster - months
faster - than any of the other options around."

    Roslin scientists have already produced cloned animals that have an added
gene, but deleting a gene or making precise alterations in its blueprint is a
much more difficult task, one that can currently be done only with long and
cumbersome methods. Chimeraplasty, said Best, could solve this problem.

    He said the companies have agreed to pursue two goals. One is to produce
sheep that are not susceptible to the devastating brain disease scrapie, the
sheep equivalent of mad-cow disease in cattle. They would do this by using
chimeraplasty to knock out the gene that makes proteins called prions in the
sheep. Prions can mutate to cause and transmit mad-cow disease and variants in
other animals. If the strategy works in sheep, it would be applied to cows.

    Researchers will also use the Kimeragen process to create sheep that lack a
sugar molecule on the surface of cells that sparks a violent immune reaction
when animal organs are transplanted into humans. The modified organs could then
be implanted into humans without triggering acute rejection that destroys
transplants almost immediately. This would not eliminate the problem of chronic
rejection, but the slower response is less serious and can be controlled by
drugs.

    Roslin Bio-Med is a spinoff of the Roslin Institute near Edinburgh, where
scientists led by Ian Wilmut created Dolly, the first mammal created by cloning,
or copying, a cell from a fully developed adult.

    In the new two-pronged technique, scientists would take a connective tissue
cell called a fibroblast from an adult animal and let it multiply in a
laboratory culture. Next, they would use a chimeraplast - a tailormade molecule
composed of DNA and RNA (another molecule that encodes genetic information) to
change a single letter of the code in the gene they want to disable.

    Finally, the scientists could transplant the nucleus of the modified cell
into a donor egg whose nucleus had been removed. The egg, fitted with the
altered nucleus, would then be triggered to develop into a new individual with
the desired traits and be implanted in the womb of a surrogate female.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1998


                             1785 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)



                   October 21, 1998, Wednesday, EAST EDITION

SECTION: METRO, Pg. E-5

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BOY WITH MD GETS NEW HOPE

BYLINE: LAURIE BAILEY

BODY:


   Three years ago, 6-year-old Derek Kolmer was having leg pain so severe he
would fall to his knees.

   They weren't growing pains.

   After a couple of visits to pediatricians, Derek and his mother, Dawnna
Kolmer of Export, found themselves at the Muscular Dystrophy Clinic at
Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh.

   A biopsy confirmed what they had begun to suspect: Derek had muscular
dystrophy. Then additional DNA testing at Johns Hopkins medical center in
Baltimore revealed that he had a rare form of the disease: Duchenne muscular
dystrophy, in which survival beyond age 30 is rare.

   But that terrible diagnosis could change next month.

   Derek, now 9, is a candidate for a groundbreaking type of gene therapy at
Ohio State University Medical Center, one that is specifically designed for
Duchenne patients.

   He is one of four boys from Pennsylvania and one of 160 nationwide in the
study, set to start next month, pending Food and Drug Administration approval,
which is expected soon.

   Researchers intend to use a gene delivery (injection) system that is capable
of carrying the gene that produces the dystrophin protein, which is lacking in
Duchenne patients. The protein plays an important role in maintaining muscle
cell membrane structure; without it the muscle wastes away.

   In 1993, a team led by Dr. Jeffrey Chamberlain of the University of Michigan
proved such gene therapy can halt Duchenne-like muscular dystrophy in mice.

   Chamberlain and Dr. Jerry Mendell, professor of neurology and pathology at
Ohio State University, are coordinating next month's research.

   Mendell said that one in 3,500 males with muscular dystrophy have the
Duchenne version, with symptoms that include generalized weakness and muscle
wasting, affecting the limb and trunk muscles first. Eventually, all voluntary
muscles are affected.

   Mendell explained that candidates such as Derek must be able to travel
monthly to the Ohio State Medical Center in Columbus for several muscle strength
tests, which should isolate the impaired gene.

   Since he was diagnosed three years ago, Derek routinely visits the clinic at
Children's, where he is given therapy for his increasing muscle weakness.

   Dawnna Kolmer said her red-haired son is doing "wonderfully."

   "Derek is given one test in which he is timed while running up and down the
hall. At his last visit, about three weeks ago, his time had decreased over his
previous visit," she said.

   With Derek's condition stabilized, Dawnna Kolmer has been able to return to
her nursing stud ies. She works as a certified nursing assistant at William Penn
Care Center in Jeannette.

   His parents are separated, so Derek spends weekends with his father, Stephen
Kolmer of Murrysville. Together, they attend church at Poke Run Presbyterian
Church in Mamont. Derek also is active in youth activities there.

   Despite his illness, Derek loves soccer, swimming and computers. Each
morning, he spends time playing with his dog before leaving to attend third
grade at Mamont Elementary School in the Kiski Area School District.

   Just a few concessions are made at school. Derek has his own key to an
elevator that gets him from the first to the second floor, and the district has
provided an extra set of books so he doesn't have to carry them home.

   And, her son gets plenty of support from his friends," said Dawnna Kolmer.

   "These are kids who have grown up with him, and they don't treat him any
differently," she said.

   FOCUS ON WESTMORELAND Laurie Bailey is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1998


                             1786 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1998 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          October 19, 1998 Monday All

SECTION: Health and Science Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: New Froedtert Cancer Center has an atmosphere of healing

BYLINE: MARILYNN MARCHIONE

SOURCE: Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   The newest "institution" on the old Milwaukee County Institution Grounds has
the features of a fortress.

   Its walls, floors and ceilings are surrounded by 17-inch-thick steel plates.
The steel plates are embedded in 4-foot-thick concrete slabs. Its collective
weight is an es timated 3,300 tons.

   But the interior of the new Froedtert Cancer Center, which opened Oct. 5, is
anything but fortress-like.

   Nature photography brightens examining rooms. Huge windows bathe hallways in
natural light. Soothing, c ool hues of plums and blues suggest a birthing suite
or a hotel instead of a place where cancer is being attacked with radiation,
drugs, surgery, bone marrow transplants and high-tech genetic therapies.

   Backlit photographic murals of natu re scenes are built into the ceilings,
positioned so that cancer patients can see them while they lie on beds for
treatments that sometimes last for hours.

   "We wanted to create an atmosphere that was calming, to give the patients
somewher e to go mentally" while undergoing treatment, said AnnMarie
Dell'Agnese, interior designer for Hammel Green & Abrahamson Inc., the
architectural firm for the project. "We wanted to support the treatment in an
environment that doesn't create additiona l stress."

   Reducing the trauma of cancer for the patient has another purpose, said Susan
Derus, director of radiation oncology.

   "The more you can calm a patient's anxiety, the better they respond to
treatment," she said.

   Family members also are soothed by the calming environment and better able to
support the patient and deal with the disease and treatment, she said.

   The new center is a far cry from the painted steel walls and cold concrete
floors of the hospital basement where cancer patients used to get radiation
treatments. Most cancer centers in the United States are built below ground
because of the weight of the equipment and the massive steel and concrete walls
that contain the radiation.

   The new cancer center has those protection measures, but it's suspended from
one side of the hospital.

   The new 32,000-square-foot, $9 million cancer center is part of a $21 million
project that added four floors to Froedtert Memoria l Lutheran Hospital's east
side.

   The cancer center is staffed by physicians and other health professionals
from the Medical College of Wisconsin. Chemotherapy is done in a different part
of Froedtert. The cancer center treats cancer patie nts of all ages, including
children who may be hospitalized at nearby Children's Hospital of Wisconsin.

   Its main purpose is radiation treatment, but planners also incorporated
related cancer treatment specialties such as bone marrow and h ematology in the
new center. There's a new genetics counseling program to advise family members
on the likelihood and risks of developing various cancers.

   A dietitian and social worker have offices in the cancer center. One floor up
is th e breast care center, where mammograms and biopsies are performed.

   "Everything was done with the patient's interests in mind," said J. Frank
Wilson, the cancer center's director.

   Equipment includes three linear accelerators, whi ch produce high-energy
radiation, and a 3-D treatment planning computer system that allows cancer
experts to target radiation to the precise size and shape of a patient's tumor
and minimize damage to surrounding tissue.

   Also offered is br achytherapy, in which a radiation source is positioned
inside the affected area of a cancer patient's body for targeted treatment at
the tumor site. A robot actually delivers the radiation dose to minimize risk to
health care workers.

   The new Froedtert Cancer Center also is home to the state's first large-scale
American Cancer Society Community Resource Center, where the public can get
pamphlets and computer access to information on the latest research into cancer
diagnosis, preventi on and treatment.

   The drop-in center has an open house on Nov. 8, and will be staffed by cancer
society volunteers Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The volunteers
are not medically trained, however, and do not give medical advice. T hey will
try to answer questions and direct visitors to more information.

   "The most powerful weapon against cancer is knowledge," says a cancer society
brochure on the new resource center. "After a diagnosis, one of the most
important thi ngs a patient, family member, friend or co-worker can do is to
learn more about cancer. Through knowledge you are better able to make
appropriate life choices."

   The center has books, videos, pamphlets, audio tapes, a computer to get lists
of clinical trials around the nation, and information on local resources.

   Nearby is a loan closet where patients and their families can borrow
everything from wigs to equipment like hospital beds, walkers and wheelchairs.

   Vol unteers are always needed to help staff the drop-in center. Anyone
interested should call the cancer society at 523-5500.

GRAPHIC: Photo color
JEFFREY PHELPS
STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

   Tony Albano (left) and Ernie Chambers, field service engine
ers
with Siemens Medical Systems Inc., work in a room where radiation
will be administered at the Froedtert Cancer Center.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998


                             1787 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1998 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

             October 14, 1998, WEDNESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; MEDICAL JOURNAL; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy will be a pain in wallet

BYLINE: Michael Woods

BODY:


   Prescription drug prices still cause sticker shock, even for patients with
health insurance coverage. But consumers are gradually getting used to the idea
of paying $ 100 or more for a tiny vial of the latest miracle drug.

   Drug companies argue that the prices are justified because it costs millions
to discover, develop and sell each new drug.

   But a more serious round of drug price inflation is fast approaching,
according to Dr. James Wilson of the Institute for Gene Therapy at the
University of Pennsylvania. He suggested that it may lead to a kind of almost
surreal encounter with the doctor as she takes prescription pad in hand:

   "Ahem, Mr. Jones. This drug is a little pricey. About $ 800,000 a dose."

   The ensuing dilemma will involve not just patients, but insurance companies
that must decide whether to foot the bill, and drug companies that must decide
whether they can charge enough to justify the expense of developing such a drug.

   Wilson described the $ 800,000-per-dose quandary at a seminar at the Jackson
Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine, a noted genetics research facility. It is
approaching, he said, because gene therapy over the next few years may finally
begin to fulfill its potential and produce cures for some diseases.

   Stop and think. Most drugs don't cure anything. The drugs you may take for
high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, arthritis and host of other
diseases are not "curative." That means you take the pills, and the disease is
gone.

   Most drugs just relieve or control symptoms. You've got to take them again
and again, sometimes for the rest of your life. That's a good deal for drug
companies, of course, because people with a disease become regular customers.
But a crisis lies ahead as gene therapy fulfills its promise by producing
treatments that cure.

   The odds-on favorite for gene therapy's first major product may cure the
bleeding disorder, hemophilia, Wilson said. He estimated that hemophiliacs spend
an average of $ 80,000 annually for injections of medication to clot the blood
and halt bleeding.

   How will a company that sells clotting factor, and faces an $
80,000-per-patient-per-year loss, price gene therapy? Maybe a simple formula
such as 10 years of cure times $ 80,000 per year, or $ 800,000 per dose, he
speculated.

   Wilson and other experts regard pricing as a major but widely overlooked
barrier to introduction of gene therapy.

   Without high prices to recoup research and development costs, drug companies
may hesitate to move gene therapy products from lab to pharmacy shelves. And
health insurers may balk at paying the bills.

   The situation cries out for more attention from government, drug companies,
insurers and advocacy groups for patients with hereditary diseases like
hemophilia who may blaze a trail for the rest of society on the pricing of gene
therapy.

   Michael Woods is the Washington bureau science editor for the Pittsburgh Post
Gazette and Toledo Blade.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1998


                             1788 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                    October 13, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z09

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Probe Eagerly for Causes of Aging; Antioxidants, Disposable
Soma and Telomeres -- Where Do the Secrets Lie?

BYLINE: Robin Herman, Special to The Washington Post

BODY:



   Unlike animals in the wild, most of whom fall prey to other animals or the
elements before they have a chance to grow old, human beings have created a
protected environment for themselves. Ringed by antibiotics and vaccines and
ruled by sanitation laws, the benign human habitat has allowed a dramatic
doubling of life span in the last century.

   With most people in developed countries living to their mid-seventies, the
remaining "hazard" lies within: the inexorable aging process that compromises
the body's cells and tissues and leads to a breakdown of various biological
systems.

   Scientists have lately laid out a string of theories to explain the
phenomenon. And they are rushing headlong, with the aid of new biotechnological
tools, to try to prove these theories. The goal is to devise medicines and
therapies to slow down, halt or even reverse the aging process at its point of
origin.

   Here are some of the molecular theories of aging now in vogue:

   * Oxidative stress. Cells are damaged by collisions with compounds called
oxygen free radicals, which are highly toxic agents produced by normal processes
inside the body as well as by environmental hazards.

   * Decline of the hormonal system. Production of key hormones declines with
age, causing disease.

   * Telomere shortening. Shortening of telomeres, the caps on the ends of
chromosomes, limits cells' ability to replicate.

   Arching over all these theories is a concept called the "disposable soma"
(entire body) theory, which describes aging as a generalized accumulation of
unrepaired faults in the cells and tissues of the body.

   For starters, scientists hope to use their new molecular understanding to
treat the major diseases associated with aging: heart disease, stroke,dementia,
depression, arthritis and osteoporosis, orthopedic problems, diminished or lost
hearing and vision, and cancer. Individual lives may be extended -- and the
number of healthy years in them -- but overall human longevity may not be
affected.

   "We don't know what the impact of research we're doing now will have on
maximum longevity," said Calvin B. Harley, chief scientific officer at the Geron
Corp., a California biotech company researching telomeres. "Personally, I feel
the impact will be incremental because aging is very complex, and we're not
going to be using this therapy at birth. We'll be using it initially to treat
people with life-threatening diseases."

   Business interest in potential anti-aging products is intense, because of the
vast market of aging consumers. Thousands of Americans are leaping ahead of the
research to self-medicate with "natural" hormonal supplements available over the
counter. They have already shown their faith in the oxidative theory of aging by
making antioxidant vitamin pills such as A and C a household staple.

   Epidemiological studies observing the lifestyles of large groups of people
for several decades have documented the apparent beneficial effects of diets
rich in antioxidant vegetables and fruits, which seem to lower the risks of
certain kinds of cardiovascular disease and cancer, for example. But such
studies do not prove the antioxidant theory, and much more research needs to be
done to see if antioxidant agents have an effect on aging.

   The only theoretically anti-aging compound that has been well tested in
humans is the female hormone estrogen, given to women as hormone "replacement
therapy" (HRT) to counteract some of the symptoms of menopause. The added
estrogen, usually taken in combination with progesterone, has been shown to
reduce the risk of such age-related health problems as heart disease, bone loss,
colon cancer and perhaps Alzheimer's-type dementia. But estrogen use has also
been linked to an increased risk of other diseases, such as breast and uterine
cancer. What's more, the drug has mainly been studied as a treatment for
menopause symptoms, and more recently as a preventive for certain diseases, not
for its effects on the overall aging process and life span.


   Total Body Breakdown


   The disposable soma theory is gaining popularity among researchers because it
has room for many aging mechanisms. Described by its originator, Thomas
Kirkwood, professor of biological gerontology at the University of Manchester in
England, the theory sees human aging as an unusual phenomenon in nature's grand
scheme. Mortality in the wild, explains Kirkwood, doesn't really give time for
the "soma" (the entire body with the exception of egg and sperm cells) to grow
old. Most of the body's energy is put into reproduction and growth to assure the
continuation of the species.

   At the same time, the body does have certain mechanisms to protect against
cell damage, according to the theory. They include the antioxidant enzymes
circulating in the body that mop up free radical molecules. There are also
systems, such as the immune system or the epidermal layers of skin, that
continually turn over cells to replace damaged cells.

   Scientists are also paying more attention to apoptosis, or programmed cell
death, which protects the body's reservoir of originating cells -- called stem
cells -- such as those in the blood-producing bone marrow. In apoptosis, stem
cells that sense they have become imperfect no longer replicate but undergo a
quiet collapse, while their function is taken up by younger cells. Programmed
cell death is the body's way to make sure that only healthy cells are in
control.

   But these various mechanisms which fight cellular damage are not sufficient
to produce an immortal or vastly longer-lived human organism. The body is still
"disposable."

   "The maintenance and repair mechanisms in our bodies evolved at a time when
life expectancy at birth was 40 years or less," says Kirkwood.

   Evolutionary theory also suggests that people have developed little
protection against cell mutations that produce life-threatening conditions, such
as cancer, at late ages. Since natural selection favors organisms that can
assure their own progeny, evolutionary forces were hardly involved in
late-appearing diseases that have no effect on procreation, Kirkwood points out.

   Animal experiments offer some clues to buttress this theory. Animals that
tend to live long lives accumulate cell damage more slowly than animals that
generally have shorter lives. This suggests that increased cell maintenance and
stress resistance is associated with increased life span and vice versa,
according to Kirkwood.

   But this is only theory. Scientists have yet to prove how changes at the
molecular level might lead directly to the characteristic changes that happen to
the human body as it ages.


   Hormones to the Rescue?


   Proponents of the hormonal theory of aging believe that hormone loss is
behind a number of the effects of aging. "All these alterations that make the
elderly so fragile -- you have to think about what regulates their function and
this is frequently hormones," said Etienne-Emile Baulieu, the French
endocrinologist best known for his invention of the abortion pill called RU-486.

   The simplest hormonal anti-aging strategy would be to counteract the natural
depletion of essential hormones in the aging human by supplementing hormones to
the level of a younger person. But first, cautions Baulieu, studies need to be
done to assure that the addition of hormones does not trigger undesirable side
effects, or promote other diseases such as cancer.

   Baulieu has been studying the adrenal hormone dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)
and its sulfate (DHEAS). DHEA is the most abundant adrenal hormone in the body,
which uses it to manufacture many other hormones, including the sex hormones.

   Some animal studies suggest a positive effect. Very large doses of DHEA have
been found to prevent or suppress certain cancers in specific strains of
rodents, block diabetes and obesity in rats genetically prone to these diseases,
and thwart the clogging of arteries in rabbits on fatty diets. It has also been
shown to protect against some viral infections in other animals. But since
animals, with the exception of the higher primates, have very little DHEA
naturally in their blood, it is hard to relate these results to people.
Scientists caution against making claims for this hormone on the basis of animal
data.

   Large human studies have not been done in part because no pharmaceutical
companies have been interested in funding research on the easily synthesized
compound, which cannot be patented. While DHEA is banned for sale in France and
some other European countries because it has not been studied in people, it is
freely available in the United States as an over-the-counter generic product and
can be purchased through the Internet.

   "You have hundreds of thousands of people taking DHEA," said Baulieu. "We
don't know how much they are taking . . . the quality is not always assessed by
appropriate controls."

   French government agencies are sponsoring a yearlong DHEA study under the
responsibility of Baulieu and Francoise Forette, director of the National
Foundation of Gerontology. The study, which began in April, is following 280
people who have been split into two groups, one taking DHEA and the other a
placebo. It will document the hormone's effects on immune function, cholesterol
level, cardiovascular function, skin aging, memory, bone density, muscular
strength and psychological health. The government hopes to answer questions
about the drug's safety and efficacy.


   Telomere Clue


   Telomere shortening is seen by its proponents as the basic cellular mechanism
of mortality. In effect, it tells cells when to die.

   In 1961, Leonard Hayflick, a cell biologist at the University of California,
San Francisco, reported that normal human cells cannot divide and replicate
indefinitely but stop after a finite number of divisions, about 50 on average.
This limit is commonly referred to as the "Hayflick limit." Since that
discovery, researchers have been trying to draw a connection between the limited
replication of cells and overall aging of the human body.

   In 1978 Elizabeth Blackburn at the University of California, Berkeley,
discovered that repeated DNA sequences on the tips of chromosomes form a kind of
cap that shortens each time the cell divides. From these two discoveries has
sprung the theory that telomeres act as a kind of biological clock, limiting the
life span of the cell.

   Interestingly, in cancer, telomeres are inhibited from undergoing their
critical shortening process, so that the cancer cells are not "told" to die.
Researchers point out that the deadliness of cancer cells comes in part from the
fact that they divide indefinitely and ultimately overwhelm normal cells.

   In addition, the activity of telomerase, an enzyme that maintains telomere
length in germ cells (sperm and eggs) enabling them to continually replicate,
increases in cancer cells. In other cells, telomerase appears only in the early
development of organs, when cells are dividing rapidly.

   In laboratory cell cultures, researchers have found that artificially
increasing telomerase production does not cause normal cells to become
cancerous; this suggests that other changes are required for a cell to become
malignant. At the same time, they have proved that increased amounts of the
enzyme can cause the cells to become immortal.

   Scientists hope that manipulating telomere length could eventually help
extend the replicative life of healthy, normal cells -- perhaps postponing or
avoiding some disabilities and diseases that come from cellular aging. At the
same time, artificially inhibiting telomere growth in proliferating tumor cells
might be a way to stop cancer, by causing the malignant cells to age and die.


   Future Research


   The possibilities are electrifying to scientists, but they remain only
possibilities. None of the anti-aging mechanisms has been scientifically proven.
A direct link, for example, between telomere shortening and the aging of human
tissues, organs or systems has not been made.

   At Geron Corp., among the leaders in telomere research, the first patents
issued last year involved the use of measurements of telomere length and
telomerase activity to assess diseases associated with proliferating cells, such
as cancer, infection with the virus that causes AIDS and atherosclerosis.

   Geron's most recent patents cover compounds and methods proposed for treating
age-related diseases, including cancer, by modulating the production of
telomerase.

   In the near term, explains Calvin B. Harley, scientific director at Geron,
the gene for the enzyme telomerase might be used to stimulate cell cultures for
already established medical therapies, such as bone marrow transplants.

   Further in the future, the enzyme could be tested to see if it might
facilitate the regeneration of aged tissues in the body such as skin cells
damaged by chronic exposure to the sun's radiation, or retinal cells at the back
of the eye damaged by a lifetime's exposure to light. Telomerase may also be a
candidate to help strengthen the immune system, which declines with age and can
be damaged by radiation or chemotherapy treatment for other illnesses. And it
might help repair aged blood vessel linings that tend to scar.

   "If we can create younger or longer-lived cells, we could allow that area to
heal better than it otherwise would," said Harley. "We could create the
longer-lived cells outside the body or eventually, with gene therapy, in the
body."

   But even as patents are generated, the basic telomere theory is still
evolving and telomerase as a therapy is a long way from the bedside.

   "People still don't know what to make of the telomere story," observed Thomas
Kirkwood, the biologist at the University of Manchester who promotes the
disposable soma theory of aging. "Its relevance to the overall aging process is
unclear. But it does have relevance to carcinogenesis, how cancer starts."

   "It would be naive to believe it would explain all aspects of aging," said
Harley. "Aging is too complex, and a lot can be going on and going wrong at the
same time."

   Scientists also see a lot of "intriguing links," as Harley put it, among the
current anti-aging theories. Perhaps cellular aging due to telomere shortening
could be causing disruptions in the hormonal system, for example, creating a
cascading effect of cellular damage.

   "People who are looking at hormone therapy are looking 'downstream,' " he
said, at what might be added back into the body to correct for age. "We are
trying to address the fundamental upstream cause."

    LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (This graphic was not available)


GRAPHIC: Chart; Illustration, john overmyer for The Washington Post

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1998


                             1789 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            October 12, 1998 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Society shouldn't take medical advances at face value

BYLINE: Lawrence Hall

BODY:

   No civilization in human history has been so enriched and so threatened by
its advances. The world is undergoing a transformation both exhilarating and
frightening.

    A new world is being born before our eyes, though few people care to notice.
More superficial events constantly divert our attention from the monumental
changes occurring in all fields of human endeavor.

    Most distressing is the effort to change the body, indeed human nature, with
pills and medical technologies like cloning and gene therapy. For good or evil,
a generation of Dr. Frankensteins controls our brave new world. Of course, great
medical benefits flow out of research. But there is also the potential for
mischief and unethical conduct.

    Surgeons foresee the possibility of face transplants in the near future.
This advance appears more likely following a pioneering hand transplant
operation at St. Mary's Hospital in London.

    Dr. John Barker, head of plastic surgery research at the University of
Louisville in Kentucky, contends, "If you can transplant a hand, it is identical
to transplanting a face. As soon as we knew that a hand transplant was
successful, we could do it immediately."

    This is more than a bit ghoulish. Such an operation would involve removing
the face of a dead donor and transplanting it onto someone disfigured by an
accident or illness. Barker says the transplant of a partial face would not
result in resemblance to the donor. "But if it was the entire face," he says,
"it would look like the donor."

    Pharmacology is another science that continues to astound. Mood-altering and
lifestyle drugs have been developed to deal with an assortment of phobias.

    However, one must wonder whether it is a good thing for folks with addictive
personalities to become dependent on these drugs. What happens if they are
unable to take these lifestyle pills? Will they become a threat to others?

    Viagra, the anti-impotence drug introduced earlier this year, has found an
enormous market. The Defense Department recently announced that it will spend
$50 million to provide the pills to servicemen and veterans. Xenical, the
anti-obesity drug, also has generated huge sales.

    Now there's a new magic pill designed to help people overcome shyness. Last
week, SmithKline Beecham of Britain introduced Seroxat for those troubled by
social anxiety. The "shyness pill" was developed by British scientists at
Southampton and Bristol universities and successfully tested in clinical trials.

    The pill increases the level of serotonin in the brain. This chemical
produces a sense of euphoria and improves self-confidence.

    "It's not a wonder drug" that will turn shy people "into witty after-dinner
speakers, but it will help people with a serious medical phobic condition," Dr.
Brian Goss of the British Medical Association told the Sunday Times of London.

    Seroxat was originally licensed by the British government to treat
depression. "Improvements were noticed within a week," said a psychiatrist for
SmithKline Beecham. "It seems that it is working on completely different
chemical receptors in the brains of people suffering from social phobia."

    It's estimated that 3 million chronically shy Britons and 10 million others
with social phobias could be cured by the pill.

    Another mind-blowing development has caused me to question the sanity of my
fellow human beings. A Rome newspaper reports that some Italian diplomats are
having microchip homing devices implanted in their bodies so police can rescue
them if they are kidnapped.

    It's a sort of Lo-Jack for people, a "biological adaption" of a global
positioning system already used to retrieve stolen cars.

    Created by Israeli researchers, the Sky-Eye device is made of synthetic and
organic fibers that operate off the energy of the human body and is invisible to
the naked eye and X-rays. Each Sky-Eye recipient is given an eight-digit code by
the company, Gen-Etics.

    The recipient shares the code only with his next of kin or someone he
trusts. If the person disappears, the holder of the code can contact the
company's control center, and the search will begin.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1790 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1998 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                       October 11, 1998 Sunday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. I-11

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Motown party all upbeat for Families First

BYLINE: By Joanne Davidson

BODY:
 If ever there was a benefit with plenty of soul, it's Motown Downtown Volume
II. "It's going to be a great party," promises chairwoman Diane Sweat. "We'll
have Charlie Thomas' Tribute to the Drifters as our headliner, along with
nonstop Motown music by Jerry Barnett's Hit Club and appearances by numerous
Motown impersonators."

   The fun begins at 7 p.m. Friday at the Downtown Hyatt Regency. Tickets start
at $ 100, with proceeds going to Families First and its efforts to prevent child
abuse and neglect.

   Committee chiefs include Dominic Martinez (corporate); Joellen Presti
(decor); Arlene Mohler (entertainment); Marsha Duemke and Aldona Seymour (menu);
Janet Spurck and Karen Schmidt (seating); and Barb Ingalls, Linda Smith, Mary
Lou Hibben and Brooke Parker (tickets). Anne Curran is president of the
sponsoring Friends for Families First. Darby and Lorraine Smith are the honorary
chairmen, and Channel 7's Anne Trujillo is the emcee.

   Motown Downtown Volume II is an event of The Denver Post Charities, a fund of
the Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation. For additional information, call
303-745-0327. Coming up Today: Denver City Councilman Dennis Gallagher talks
about "The Italians of North Denver" at a brunch and Columbus Day celebration
put on by Il Circolo Italiano. Tickets for this noon event at Il Fornaio are $
11 for members and $ 16 for guests. Call Rosemarie, 303-322-6437.

   Today: The annual Fall Mountain Man Rendezvous, a benefit for Children's
Hospital, begins at noon at The Fort restaurant in Morrison. Throughout the
afternoon there will be contests (knife- and tomahawk-throwing and fire-starting
with flint and steel), an 1830s marketplace and the opportunity to taste foods
from the early West.

   Today: Folk dancing and a show of historical Chinese costumes highlight a
formal banquet celebrating the Republic of China's independence day. The event,
chaired by Nai-Li Yee, begins at 5:30 p.m. at the Marriott Denver Tech Center.

   Today: Owner Michael Coughlin and chef Matthew Franklin of 240 Union
restaurant in Lakewood are the hosts for a dinner benefiting Hospice of St.
John. Chairwoman Nancy DeLauro says festivities begin with cocktails and a
silent auction at 6 p.m. Call 303-757-2773.

   Monday: Littleton-Englewood branch of the American Association of University
Women meets at 6:45 p.m. at Koelbel Library for a round-table discussion with
middle school students who attended the Great Goals for Girls summit last
winter. Call 303-779-4009.

   Tuesday: Ron Chernow discusses his book "Titan: The Life of John D.
Rockefeller Sr." at a luncheon benefiting Colorado Endowment for the Humanities.
The $ 75 donation includes a signed copy of the book, which has been on the New
York Times best-seller list since its release last spring. Registration begins
at 11:30 a.m. at the Marriott Southeast; Don and Susan Sturm are the honorary
chairmen. Call 303-573-7733.

   Wednesday: New Jersey Gov. Christine Todd Whitman delivers the keynote
address for a luncheon benefiting the Women's Foundation of Colorado. Sherri
Koelbel is the chairwoman and notes that seating begins at 11:30 a.m. at the
Adam's Mark Hotel. Call 303-832-8800.    Wednesday: The Bonfils-Stanton
Foundation, Safeway, the Larimer Group and Sue Alexander Simos will be saluted
when Volunteers of America has its 102nd Annual Report Reception at the Adam's
Mark Hotel. Reservations for the 5:30 p.m. event can be phoned to 303-297-0408.
    Wednesday: "Putting the Pieces Together" is the theme for Colorado UpLift's
annual fund-raising dinner. Ryta Sondergard chairs the 6 p.m. event at the Hyatt
Regency Tech Center; Bill Pauls heads the Colorado UpLift board. Call
303-292-4245.

   Wednesday: Holme Roberts & Owen and National Jewish Medical & Research Center
will be inducted into the Centennial Circle when Historic Denver stages its 27th
annual meeting and dinner at the Brown Palace Hotel. In addition, Rexford G.
Brown receives the Ann Love Award for his redevelopment of the former Rocky
Mountain Bank Note building in Denver's Golden Triangle. Chairwoman Margy
Anderson says tickets are $ 100 and can be purchased by calling 303-296-9887.

   Thursday: Sewall Connection, a guild of the Sewall Child Development Center,
meets at 9 a.m. to hear Executive Director Cheryl Caldwell discuss the center's
involvement with Head Start. Sheilagh Hudon is the hostess. Call 303-399-1800.

   Thursday: The John Dick residence in Cherry Hills Village is the setting for
a brunch meeting of the Volunteers of America Guild. Jane Netzorg and Glenda
Sellar are in charge of the 10 a.m. gathering.

   Thursday: A champagne reception and informal fashion show at the St. John
Boutique in Cherry Creek North benefits the University of Denver Women's Library
Association. Reservations for the 1 p.m. event can be phoned to 303-871-3405.

   Thursday: Mike Shanahan, head coach of the Denver Broncos, is honored at a
dinner benefiting Rocky Mountain chapter of the American Ireland Fund. It's at
the Westin Tabor Center and tickets are $ 300 each. Attorney Ed Timmins is the
chairman. Call Karen Kennedy, 303-333-3995.

   Friday: Pinehurst Country Club is the setting for a luncheon, fashion show
and card party to benefit the School to Work program at Goodwill Industries.
Cece Campbell and Gloria Gladsby are the chairwomen; committee members include
Jane Jeffries, Margaret Haygood, Dorothy Stone, Mary Venable and Goodwill
Auxiliary President Charlene Edwards.

   Friday: Paleoanthropologist Maeve Leakey is the speaker for a dinner and
raffle to benefit Crow Canyon Archaeological Center in Cortez. Sue
Anschutz-Rodgers is helping to plan the 5:30 p.m. event, tickets for which can
be purchased by calling 1-800-422-8975, ext. 136.

   Saturday: A Victorian tea and bazaar, benefiting Daughters of the British
Empire in Colorado, begins at 2 p.m. at First Plymouth Congregational Church,
3501 S. Colorado Blvd. Tickets are $ 10 at the door and include refreshments
served by members in traditional dress.

   Saturday: Barbara Jones, who put in three years as president of the Colorado
AIDS Project board, and Dr. Chip Schooley, one of the nation's leading AIDS
researchers and clinicians, will be honored at CAP's annual Leadership Dinner.
Paul Mesard and Christopher Leach are the chairmen; Dr. Marcus Conant, a pioneer
in the fight against AIDS, is the guest speaker. The black-tie gathering begins
with cocktails and hors d'oeuvres at 5:30 p.m. at the Downtown Hyatt Regency.
Call 303-837-0166, ext. 504.

   Saturday: National President Marlene Post is the special guest when LEA
chapter of Hadassah hosts a fund-raising dinner at the Marriott Denver Tech
Center. Laura Schiff and Arlene Stein are the chairwomen; proceeds go to gene
therapy research at Hadassah Hospital in Israel. Call 303-773-8429.

   Saturday: The Lester Lanin Orchestra provides the dance music for HealthONE's
Great Gatsby Gala, a dinner, dance and auction taking place at the Brown Palace
Hotel. Patti Brown is the chairwoman and KEZW's Rick Crandall is the emcee. Call
Leslie Strate, 303-322-3515.    Saturday: The 15th annual Scandinavian Ball
begins at 6 p.m. at the Doubletree Hotel across from the former Stapleton
Airport. There will be an akavit toast, dinner, door prizes and entertainment by
pianist Craig Johnson, named 1998 Performer of the Year by the Finlandia
Foundation in Helsinki. Also, dancing to Amy Johnson's Norsemen Orchestra. Call
303-364-1297 or 303-985-3538.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1998


                             1791 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                    October 11, 1998, Sunday 2 STAR EDITION

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Pilots' group flies ailing people to medical treatment - for free ;
Volunteers help those who've exhausted their insurance, savings

SOURCE: Associated Press

BYLINE: DALE HOPPER

DATELINE: MANASSAS, Va.

BODY:

   MANASSAS, Va. - Judi Hecht and her father spent $ 1,800 just getting to
appointments the first week she received experimental gene therapy for breast
cancer.

   The 38-year-old Alexandria, Va., woman then flew back to New York alone every
week for months, taking a cab to Hackensack, N.J., to continue the treatment.

   "You have to do what you have to do to," Hecht, a former nurse on Social
Security disability pay, said of her hefty travel expenses.

   So when a social worker suggested that she call a private pilot organization
that could get her there for free, "I thought it was too good to be true."

   Hecht has now flown several times with Manassas-based Angel Flight
Mid-Atlantic, one of 30 regional programs in the country that made more than
7,500 volunteer flights last year.

   That's up 32 percent from 1996, which was 20 percent ahead of 1995, said Ed
Boyer, who formed the nonprofit organization that oversees Angel Flight.

   He also runs the National Patient Assistance Center in Virginia Beach, which
refers about 600 patients a month to the regional groups.

   "I'm convinced growth will continue in the 25 percent range for quite a
while," said Boyer, a 61-year-old retired executive of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services.

   He started volunteering his plane for medical compassion flights in the 1970s
and soon discovered others around the country doing the same. By 1990, enough
groups were organized to start formally working together. HHS paid him for two
years while he set up the national assistance center.

   "The health care delivery system takes no responsibility for getting patients
anywhere," he said. "If you can't travel you're not treated."

   Pilots use their own planes and pay for fuel, which can cost $ 300 to $ 500
per trip. The small private planes can only fly about 350 miles between fuel
stops.

   If a patient needs to go farther, a relay is set up so pilots can fly back
home the same day. Trips beyond 1,000 miles are too uncomfortable for patients.

   Al Norment, who owns a medical supply company in Maryland, said he is
privileged to be able to provide the flights. He dismissed the cost of fuel and
the wear on his Mooney M-20K as "not important."

   The patients "are people who have used up their insurance, their resources.
They're not indigents by choice. They're very sick and they need
transportation," said Norment, the 61-year-old owner of Marcal Medical Inc. in
Millersville.

   The planes carry no medical equipment so the patients, many of them children,
need to be able to endure the flights. Bad weather or patient condition can
throw off flight plans and it's especially bad in the winter.

   Angel Flight Mid-Atlantic, which uses more than 130 pilots in seven states,
was able to fly only 16 of 41 scheduled trips in January and only seven of 36 in
February. Through the summer, the number of scheduled flights more than doubled
and the number completed went up to 75 percent.

   Now that the Food and Drug Administration has approved the Herceptin
treatment, Hecht expects it will be widely available, eliminating the need for
her flights.

   Hecht said she hopes the Food and Drug Administration will approve the
Herceptin treatment soon, making it more widely available and eliminating the
need for her flights.

   She recently flew in a single-engine Bonanza F33A, four-seat plane owned by
Judy Bergman. A one-way trip can be as short as 90 minutes riding a brisk
tailwind, or stretch to 2 1/2 hours against the wind. Rerouting around bad
weather can also add to flight time.

   Add an hour's drive to the Manassas airport, taxis and treatment, and the
days are grueling.

   "It would wipe out a healthy person," said Hecht, who also undergoes
chemotherapy once a week closer to home.

   Bergman, whose husband is a doctor, likes to fly friends on short trips for
fun. She's flown patients about once a month for the last few years and is
affected by her passengers because she nearly lost one of her six children to
cancer.

   "I hurt deeply for these people," Bergman said. "But I see people with
serious illness handle it in a way I'd be proud to."

   Patients must have a proven financial need for the service, but the illnesses
are so financially devastating and the treatment so hard to get to that even
people like Hecht, who was a nurse for 16 years, quickly qualify.

   "These guys make a miserable thing easier to tolerate," Hecht said. "There's
no way to thank them."

   Volunteer air ambulances are also available for patients with more extreme
medical problems and Boyer is working with commercial flyers to arrange discount
tickets.

   Corporate Angel Network in White Plains, N.Y., books about 1,000 flights a
year for patients in corporate jets, Boyer said.

   The efforts are completely funded with private donations, he said.

   "Every $ 100 generates $ 600 to $ 700 in transportation," Boyer said. "We are
out there constantly looking for philanthropic sources."







GRAPHIC: Photo: Cancer patient Judi Hecht and her father, Leo, arrive at
Manassas Regional Airport in Manassas, Va., for a flight to New Jersey for
experimental gene therapy. Hecht has flown there several times with Angel Flight
Mid-Atlantic, one of 30 regional programs that made more than 7,500 volunteer
flights ferrying ill patients.; Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1998


                             1792 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1998 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         October 11, 1998 Sunday, FIRST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A35

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: PILOTS VOLUNTEER PLANES FOR MEDICAL AID FLIGHTS

BYLINE: By Dale Hopper Associated Press writer

DATELINE: MANASSAS, VA.

BODY:

   Judi Hecht and her father spent $1,800 just getting to appointments the first
week she received experimental gene therapy for breast cancer.

   The 38-year-old Alexandria, Va., woman then flew back to New York alone every
week for months, taking a cab to Hackensack, N.J., to continue the treatment.

      "You have to do what you have to do to," Ms. Hecht, a former nurse on
Social Security disability pay, said of her hefty travel expenses.
   So when a social worker suggested that she call a private pilot
organization that could get her there for free, "I thought it was too good to
be true."
   Ms. Hecht has now flown several times with Manassas-based Angel Flight
Mid-Atlantic, one of 30 regional programs in the country that made more than
7,500 volunteer flights last year.
   That's up 32 percent from 1996, which was 20 percent ahead of 1995, said Ed
Boyer, who formed the nonprofit organization that oversees Angel Flight.
   He also runs the National Patient Assistance Center in Virginia Beach,
which refers about 600 patients a month to the regional groups.
   "I'm convinced growth will continue in the 25 percent range for quite a
while," said Boyer, a 61-year-old retired executive of the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services.
   He started volunteering his plane for medical compassion flights in the
'70s and soon discovered others around the country doing the same. By 1990
enough groups were organized to start formally working together. HHS paid him
for two years while he set up the national assistance center.
   "The health care delivery system takes no responsibility for getting
patients anywhere," he said.  "If you can't travel you're not treated."
   The pilots use their own planes and pay for fuel, which can cost $300-$500
per trip. The small private planes can only fly about 350 miles between fuel
stops.
   If a patient needs to go farther, a relay is set up so pilots can fly back
home the same day. Trips beyond 1,000 miles are too uncomfortable for the
patients.
   Al Norment, who owns a medical supply company in Maryland, said he is
privileged to be able to provide the flights. He dismissed the cost of fuel
and the wear on his Mooney M-20K as "not important."
   The patients "are people who have used up their insurance, their
resources. They're not indigents by choice. They're very sick and they need
transportation," said Norment, the 61-year-old owner of Marcal Medical Inc. in
Millersville.
   The planes carry no medical equipment so the patients, many of them
children, need to be able to endure the flights. Bad weather or patient
condition can throw off flight plans and it's especially bad in the winter.
   Angel Flight Mid-Atlantic, which uses more than 130 pilots in seven states,
was able to fly only 16 of 41 scheduled trips in January and only 7 of 36 in
February. Through the summer, the number of scheduled flights more than
doubled and the number completed went up to 75 percent.
   Now that the Food and Drug Administration has approved the Herceptin
treatment, Ms. Hecht expects it will be widely available, eliminating the need
for her flights.
   Ms. Hecht said she hopes the Food and Drug Administration will approve the
Herceptin treatment soon, making it more widely available and eliminating the
need for her flights.
   She recently flew in a single-engine Bonanza F33A, four-seat plane owned by
Judy Bergman. A one-way trip can be as short as 90 minutes riding a brisk
tailwind, or stretch to 2 hours against the wind. Rerouting around bad weather
can also add to flight time.
   Add an hour's drive to the Manassas airport, taxis and treatment, the days
are grueling.
   "It would wipe out a healthy person," said Ms. Hecht, who also undergoes
chemotherapy once a week closer to home.
   Ms. Bergman, whose husband is a doctor, likes to fly friends on short trips
for fun. She's flown patients about once a month for the last few years and is
affected by her passengers because she nearly lost one of her six children to
cancer.
   "I hurt deeply for these people," Ms. Bergman said.  "But I see people with
serious illness handle it in a way I'd be proud to."
   Patients must have a proven financial need for the service, but the
illnesses are so financially devastating and the treatment so hard to get to
that even people like Ms. Hecht, who was a nurse for 16 years, quickly
qualify.
   "These guys make a miserable thing easier to tolerate," Ms. Hecht said.
"There's no way to thank them."
   Volunteer air ambulances are also available for patients with more extreme
medical problems and Boyer is working with commercial flyers to arrange
discount tickets.
   Corporate Angel Network in White Plains, N.Y., books about 1,000 flights a
year for patients in corporate jets, Boyer said.
   The efforts are funded with private donations, he said.

For information about donated and discounted flights for medical conditions
call the National Patient Air Transport Helpline at 1-800-296-1217.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1998


                             1793 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                   October 10, 1998 Saturday, 2 WEST CENTRAL

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: HOSPITAL SPONSORING BREAST HEALTH FORUM

DATELINE: BRISTOL --

BODY:

   Bristol Hospital will sponsor its First Annual Bristol Community Breast
Health Symposium on Oct. 17 at the Bristol Hospital Wellness Center, 842 Clark
Ave.

   The free conference, from 8:30 a.m. to 12:45 p.m., will include presentations
on topics including advances in early detection of breast cancer, current
treatment strategies, hormones and menopause, and gene therapy.

   U.S. Rep. Nancy Johnson, R-6th District, will make the opening comments. The
event will include a question-and-answer period, continental breakfast and
buffet lunch.

   Co-sponsoring the event are the Charlotte Johnson Hollfelder Foundation and
the Bristol Radiology Center and Radiologic Associates PC.

   Registration information is available by calling (888) 575-5585.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1998


                             1794 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 1998 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune

                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     October 9, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: More than just friends;

BYLINE: Compiled by Mike O'Neill ;

BODY:


   Unlike her TV character on "Friends," Courteney Cox has gotten lucky in love.

   Cox is engaged to actor David Arquette, according to TV Guide. A Cox rep told
the magazine:  "There's no date. The only information I can give you is they're
engaged. So don't ask me any more  questions because I can't talk about it."

   Arquette, 27, and Cox, 34, met while filming "Scream" and co-starred in
"Scream 2." He just popped  the question and he moved into her house. Arquette
is the younger bro of actors Rosanna and  Patricia Arquette.

   Cox used to be mighty serious with "Batman" actor Michael Keaton, but he
reportedly couldn't make  up his mind about marriage and she said, "See ya!"
Source: Knight Ridder Newspapers  Special issues

   Special issues of magazines are as abundant as autumn leaves. Among the
offerings:

    Travel & Leisure Family features family vacation stories written by parents
on the magazine's  staff. Executive Editor Barbara Peck takes off for New
Orleans with her husband and two sons. She  finds the Big Easy a child-friendly
place, with the mysterious Voodoo Museum, the zoo and the food  proving to be
powerful attractions. Editors also visit four island resorts on Florida's Gulf
Coast  and stay for a week in a Venice palazzo.

    Martha Stewart Living tackles a timely topic for fall wardrobe planning in
an issue called  "Clotheskeeping." Martha takes on sweater blocking, dry
cleaning, closet and drawer planning, how to  get the best fit in clothing and
footwear and what constitutes a "really good mirror."

    Life magazine does a take on medical miracles, with "21 breakthroughs that
could change your  life in the 21st century." Included are gene therapy, edible
vaccines, memory drugs and even a way  to grow your own replacement
organs.Source: The Hartford Courant

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,
 Courteney Cox

NOTES: QUIPS, QUOTES, QUIBBLES & BITS

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1998


                             1795 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    October 8, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 2D, BUSINESS DIGEST

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Sinclair Broadcast seeks $ 500 million by sale of stations

SOURCE: From staff and wire reports

BODY:


   Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. said yesterday that it intends to raise up to $
500 million in late 1998 and early 1999 by selling some of its television and
radio stations.

   The acquisition-hungry Baltimore broadcasting company said it would use money
generated from the sales to finance its purchases of other stations and to pay
down debt; it had almost $ 1.5 billion in outstanding long-term debt as of June
30. The company added that changes in interest rates will cause its
debt-financing costs to be lower than expected.

   Sinclair owns 56 television stations and 54 radio stations. It said it will
sell stations that aren't central to its strategy, but didn't specify which
ones.

Osiris gets federal grant for stem cell therapy

   Osiris Therapeutics Inc. said yesterday that it has been awarded a $ 2
million federal grant to develop stem cell therapy products for bone
regeneration.

   Baltimore-based Osiris said it will use the grant for developing products to
regenerate bone in spine fusions and in defects of long bones. The grant, from
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, is payable over three years
with matching funds provided by Osiris.

   The company is working on using stem cells, the progenitor cells responsible
for the formation of various tissues, to develop pharmaceuticals, cell therapy
and gene therapy products to regenerate bone and connective tissues damaged
through injury, aging or degenerative diseases.

Commercial mortgage REIT Criimi Mae seeks capital

   Criimi Mae Inc., the commercial mortgage company that filed for bankruptcy
protection from creditors this week, is in talks to obtain capital from
potential investors.

   The company would not disclose details of the talks and said it could not
guarantee that it would obtain any extra capital.

   Criimi Mae, based in Rockville, is the nation's biggest buyer of risky bonds
backed by commercial mortgages. The publicly traded commercial mortgage real
estate investment trust. which has no ties to the federal government, filed
bankruptcy papers Monday because of the sudden decline in the value of its loan
portfolio.

MBNA 3rd-quarter income up 26% to $ 216.6 million

   MBNA Corp., the world's No. 2 issuer of Visa and MasterCard credit cards,
said yesterday that its third-quarter income jumped 26 percent from a year
earlier to $ 216.6 million.

   MBNA reported earnings of 27 cents a diluted share, up from 21 cents a share
a year earlier, when its net income was $ 171.8 million.

   MBNA said it opened 6.6 million accounts in the first nine months of the
year. As of Sept. 30, it had $ 56.3 billion in credit card loans outstanding, up
$ 3.5 billion from the prior quarter, and $ 10.1 billion more than at the end of
the third quarter of 1997.

Allegheny Energy wants to refinance more debt

   Allegheny Energy Co. expects to resume talks this month aimed at boosting the
amount of debt that it may refinance, which would make it easier to compete when
Pennsylvania deregulates its electricity market next year.

   Hagerstown-based Allegheny, which has 1.4 million Pennsylvania customers,
wants the state to let it lock in lower interest rates on $ 1.6 billion of debt,
instead of the $ 524 million that the state is allowing.

   Pennsylvania and other states limit the amount of debt companies can
refinance to ensure an even playing field for energy companies wanting to sell
energy. A ruling in April that cut the amount Allegheny may refinance prompted
DQE Inc., a Coraopolis, Pa.-based utility, to withdraw from its $ 4.1 billion
agreement to be acquired by Allegheny.

IGEN says Bristol-Myers buys right to use Origen

   IGEN International Inc. says pharmaceutical giant Bristol-Myers Squibb & Co.
has signed on to use IGEN's proprietary Origen screening system for drug
development.

   Gaithersburg-based IGEN expects its chief revenue from the system to come
from sales of the consumable reagents required for Origen, which can detect drug
activity against specific diseases, and estimates that the reagent market
exceeds $ 200 million annually worldwide.

Washington County airport honors Henson in renaming

   Washington County commissioners have voted unanimously to change the name of
Washington County Regional Airport to Hagerstown Regional Airport -- Richard A.
Henson Field.

   Officials had recommended putting Hagerstown in the name to alleviate
confusion because there are more than 30 Washington Counties across the country.

   Henson, 88, is a millionaire philanthropist who was instrumental in
developing the airport, both as an employee of Fairchild Aircraft and later as
owner of an airline he founded. He also has been a driving force behind an
effort to build a $ 2 million aviation museum there.

Del. court dismisses suit against Disney on Ovitz severance

   Walt Disney Co. won dismissal yesterday of a lawsuit over former President
Michael Ovitz's estimated $ 140 million severance package after unhappy
shareholders failed to prove it was a waste of corporate assets.

   Delaware Chief Chancery Court Judge William Chandler, in Wilmington,
dismissed the suit that sought to recoup payments made to Ovitz under a "golden
parachute" provision in his contract.

   The judge said shareholders didn't prove the provision was a waste of money
and that Disney got nothing of value even though the severance package may be
the largest ever paid to a U.S. executive.

Satellite telecasts extended for CBS, Fox programs

   A million satellite TV customers nationwide can continue receiving CBS and
Fox programs for five more months under an order issued by a federal judge in
Miami.

   U.S. District Judge Lenore Nesbitt revised a nationwide preliminary
injunction, obtained by the networks in July, that would have cut off customers
from CBS and Fox signals by today.

   CBS, Fox and the satellite industry had asked the judge to delay the
effective date of the injunction until Feb. 28. Nesbitt did so in an order Sept.
30 that was made public yesterday.

Time running out for bill to join financial services

   Lawmakers cleared another hurdle yesterday on a bill allowing banks,
securities firms and insurance companies into each other's businesses, but time
is running out for Congress to pass sweeping financial services reform.

   By an 88-11 vote, the Senate agreed to bring the bill to the floor for formal
debate and amendments. Banking and insurance lobbyists predict the earliest the
Senate could take up its next key vote on the bill would be late Friday.

   But lengthy debate and excessive amendments could stall the legislation this
year. Congress is set to adjourn by the end of the week.

GM wants separate pact for Delphi Automotive unit

   General Motors Corp. will seek a separate contract with the United Auto
Workers for its Delphi Automotive Parts unit in 1999, a spokesman for the
world's largest automaker said yesterday.

   General Motors announced plans this summer to spin off Delphi as a publicly
traded company next year. The UAW leadership has said repeatedly that it wants
Delphi to be part of GM's negotiations.

GTE revising phone bills to help detect 'cramming'

   GTE is revamping its local phone bills to help customers understand them and
spot unauthorized charges.

   The so-called "cramming" involves consumers getting charged on their phone
bills by third parties for products or services they never requested or
received.

   GTE's changes will affect its 14 million residential customers and 2 million
business customers in 28 states.

   Pub Date: 10/08/98

TYPE: COLUMN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1998


                             1796 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1998 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   October 7, 1998, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Md. bioscience industry a rising force for growth; 40,000 work in
state on new technologies luring more investors; Economy

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Maryland's once nascent bioscience industry has emerged as a fast-expanding
force in the state's economic growth, employing more than 40,000 statewide at
200-plus companies and institutions and paying wages averaging almost $ 50,000
annually, a new report on the industry has found.

   The report also says that investment in Maryland companies has become
significant in generating new wealth in the state. That includes $ 900 million
in venture capital and other investments in privately held Maryland bioscience
companies, and 15 biotechnology investors whose holdings in Maryland companies
are each worth more than $ 1 million.

   The 60-page report, a first-ever official look at the industry and its
economic effect in Maryland, makes no proposals for supporting the growth of the
bioscience industry in Maryland, but is intended to give industry and government
officials an overview of the vitality of the industry, said Robert Eaton,
executive director of MdBio Inc.

   Among the findings:

   Industry employment, once largely concentrated in government agencies and
universities, is more diverse today. Private industry accounts for 36 percent of
jobs, while universities account for 22 percent. Government agencies, such as
the National Institutes of Health, remain the largest such employer with 42
percent.

   The industry employs about 40,000. (That is about 1.8 percent of total state
employment, which numbered more than 2.23 million in 1997, Department of Labor
and Licensing figures show.)

   The average annual pay of workers in companies making or developing products
is $ 49,500; workers at companies which provide manufacturing, testing and other
bioscience services are paid an average of $ 40,100 annually. By contrast, state
Department of Labor and Licensing figures show the annual average wage of
Maryland workers in 1997 was $ 31,772, or $ 611 weekly.

   A growing number of Maryland companies have lucrative research and marketing
alliances with some of the powerhouses of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries.

   Fifteen of Genetic Engineering News' list of "100 Molecular Millionaires"
earned that status from investments and holdings in Maryland companies. They
range from IGEN International Inc. founder and chief executive Sam Wholstadter
($ 71.2 million) to Chesapeake Biological Laboratory Inc. chief technical
officer and board member Narlin Beaty ($ 1 million).

   MdBio Inc., a Frederick nonprofit organization that supports biotechnology
initiatives, prepared the report along with the Maryland Department of Business
and Economic Development and the Institute for Policy Studies at Johns Hopkins
University.

   "Sometimes I think there is this misimpression that Maryland's biotechnology
industry is made up only of small emerging companies," Eaton said. "What this
report shows is that we have 24 publicly held biotechnology companies
headquartered in Maryland, and a lot of outside investment that has flowed into
the state through those and other companies."

   Martha Connolly, DBED's senior biotechnology industry representative, said
the report also highlights how dynamic and diverse the industry has become.

   "It's not all that long ago that most of Maryland's bioscience was largely
basic research oriented and only found at the big research institutions and
universities, like NIH and Hopkins," Connolly said. "Today we have almost 300
companies, many of them already with products on the market."

   Those products range from small, privately held Cera Products Inc.'s oral
rehydration formula for hospital patients to publicly held MedImmune Inc.'s new
vaccine for an infant respiratory virus.

   Connolly said she believes the most significant potential for economic growth
in the state from the industry can be found in the growing number of
experimental products in development.

   The report found companies and institutional researchers working on a wide
range of potentially dramatic drugs and other treatments and diagnostics, from
treatments for stroke and Alzheimer's disease to treatments to regenerate blood,
bone and tissue.

   The study found more than 35 treatments and diagnostics, developed by
Maryland-based companies or researchers, in the clinical development stage,
meaning they are being tested in humans.

   Connolly said she was struck by how several industries were concentrating in
Maryland, namely biotechnology-based vaccine research and gene therapy, and the
study of genes and their functions, known as genomics.

   Maryland's bioscience payroll

   Sector ......... Employees ... Average salary ... Total pay (millions)

   Companies ...... 14,490 ..... $ 46,800 ......... $ 678.1

   Federal labs ... 17,080 ..... $ 52,100 ......... $ 890

   Universities ... 9,050 ...... $ 45,700 ......... $ 413.6

   SOURCE: MdBio Inc.

   Pub Date: 10/07/98

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SUN STAFF: 1997, Incubator: Technicians work at Osiris
Therapeutics Inc. in Fells Point, where the company is developing technologies
to regenerate bone marrow, cartilage and other tissue cells.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998


                             1797 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1998 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                      October 7, 1998 Wednesday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF THE LOOP;
BOMBING WAS NEWS TO JOINT CHIEFS

BYLINE: MARY K. FEENEY; Courant Staff Writer

BODY:

   Seymour Hersh, unafraid of the dark pools of controversy, dives in again,
this time in The New Yorker.

   In an article titled "The Missiles of August," the investigative reporter
explores America's August air strikes against Saudi extremist Osama bin Laden
and finds some curious twists in the Washington chain of command.

      Four members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- three generals and one
admiral
who run the armed forces -- were out of the decision-making loop in the days
before the August raid on alleged terrorist targets in Sudan and Afghanistan,
Hersh reports. In fact, Hersh says, Gen. Henry Hugh Shelton, chairman of the
joint chiefs, was instructed not to brief "the four men who know more about
the use of force than anyone in the White House." Shelton also was prohibited
from consulting with terrorism experts in the Defense Intelligence Agency.
   "One insider said that Shelton apologized later to the agency's director
and assured him that he would 'never let this happen again,' " Hersh writes.
   Hersh also reports that FBI Director Louis Freeh was also left out of
planning for the attacks, and that Attorney General Janet Reno urged the White
House to delay the raids, saying the White House lacked sufficient evidence to
link bin Laden with earlier bombings of American embassies in Africa.
   Hersh, author of "The Dark Side of Camelot" and a book on   veterans
suffering from Gulf War Syndrome, has proven in the past to be a reliable
researcher. This story relies largely on unnamed sources, troubling in light
of the journalistic license employed in recent months to describe the current
White House troubles.
   But an Associated Press story Tuesday confirmed that Hersh's basic premise
-- that most members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff weren't aware of planning
for the missile strike until days before the weapons were launched -- turns
out to be true.

   October Surprises

   Special issues are as abundant as autumn leaves. Among the offerings:
   * Travel & Leisure Family features family vacation stories written by
parents on the magazine's staff. Executive Editor Barbara Peck takes off for
New Orleans with her husband and two sons. She finds the Big Easy a
kid-friendly place, with the mysterious Voodoo Museum, the zoo and the food
proving to be powerful attractions. Editors also visit four island resorts on
Florida's Gulf Coast and stay for a week in a Venice palazzo.
   * Martha Stewart Living tackles a timely topic for fall wardrobe planning
in an issue called "Clotheskeeping." Martha takes on sweater-blocking, dry
cleaning, planning closets and drawers, getting the best fit in clothing and
footwear and what constitutes a "really good mirror."
   * Life does a takeout on medical miracles, with "21 breakthroughs that
could change your life in the 21st century." Included are gene therapy,
edible vaccines, memory drugs and even a way to grow your own replacement
organs. Talk about do-it-yourself.
   * For Time's 36-page special report, the magazine sent a team of 14
journalists and photographers to Duke University Medical Center in Durham,
N.C., to document a week in the life of a hospital. They went on rounds,
talked with health care professionals and looked at the effectsof managed
care, advances in medical research and other issues. Writer Nancy Gibbs says
that although law requires hospitals to treat anyone seeking care, "that
promise is now caught in a collision between money and medicine that is
occurring in hospitals all over the country -- nowhere more than in the elite
academic medical centers."

   On The Rack

   * Some people are annoyed by those odiferous perfume samples tucked inside
fashion magazines. This month's National Geographic has sample scents with
historic cachet. Using ancient formulas, the magazine has reconcocted the
fragrances used by Cleopatra and Napoleon in a "rub and sniff" encapsulation
of perfume oils. The sample fragrances are part of "Perfume: The Essence of
Illusion" by Cathy Newman, a fascinating look at the secrets of the fragrance
industry from harvesting flowers to Madison Avenue marketing.
   Newman visited a vault in Paris, where fragrances no longer manufactured --
including Napoleon's -- are archived. Napoleon kept a flask of perfume in his
boot to mask the smell of battlefield death. The scent is lemony, much like
furniture polish with a little more class.
   Cleopatra's fragrance, which includes balsam and myrrh resins, cinnamon,
cardamom, saffron and other ingredients, is a mix of spice and pine,
reminiscent of medicated skin cream. Hey, Marc Antony seemed to like it.
   * Was I the only person in America who watched President Clinton's Aug. 17
"apology" speech on television and didn't realize he was angry?If you find
that faces are hard to read, you might want to peruse this month's Psychology
Today. Pulitzer Prize-winning author Deborah Blum says the ability to make
faces -- and read them -- is central to health and the survival of the human
race. Psychology professor Paul Ekman, a pioneer in studying the human
countenance, says, "In a sense, the face is equipped to lie the most and leak
the most, and thus can be a very confusing source of information."
   * People's cover story -- "Jackie's Secret Romances" -- features excerpts
from Edward Klein's new book. "In his new book, 'Just Jackie: Her Private
Years' [Ballentine], Klein details how a despondent, young widow sought escape
in passionate affairs before finally finding love and fulfillment as a working
mother," People's press release says.
   Klein spares no detail in his reporting of the post-assassination
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. He chronicles a Fairfax Hotel necking session with
a Secret Service agent, as related to him by an unnamed "diner." (" 'After
a bit, they slumped down in the red-leather banquette and disappeared from
sight,' the diner continued.") There was an affair, a year after John F.
Kennedy was assassinated, with architect John Carl Warnecke, who designed the
president's grave site. Klein says the couple made love in a house at the
Kennedy compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
   Jackie has been a cultural icon for more than 30 years, and readers
apparently can't get enough of the Kennedy mystique. Even so, this may be too
much information for some of us, in an era when we are being bombarded with
salacious detail on prime-time news. One wonders what Jackie would have
thought of Klein's latest offering.

COLUMN: Cover To Cover

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998


                             1798 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1998 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle



                   October 07, 1998, Wednesday 3 STAR EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Business briefs;
Houston & Texas

SOURCE: From staff and wire reports

BODY:

   Lucksinger resigns from NylCare Health


   Tom Lucksinger, formerly president and chief executive officer of NylCare
Health Plans of the Gulf Coast, has resigned from the company.

   Mike Mirt, 46, formerly president for NylCare Health Plans for Houston, has
taken over Lucksinger's position.

   Lucksinger could not be reached for comment. A spokeswoman at Aetna U.S.
Healthcare, which bought NylCare for $ 1.05 billion last March, said the company
could not discuss former or current employees but called the departure
"amicable."


   CompuBank hits World Wide Web


   CompuBank, the first nationally chartered Internet bank, plans to launch
operations today.

   The Houston-based bank, which will conduct business entirely on its Web site
at www.-compubank.com, will offer deposit and savings products, as well as wire
services, bill payment services, and direct deposit and transfers.

   The bank doesn't have a physical branch, but customers will be able to
contact customer service representatives at 888-479-9292.


   Boeing 777 makes emergency landing


   Continental's newest airplane, a Boeing 777, made an emergency landing Monday
in Chitose, Japan, after a gauge showed faster-than-normal oil use in one
engine, a company spokesman said.

   The plane, en route from Newark to Tokyo, was on a preliminary run and had no
passengers. The landing was about 500 miles from Tokyo. The engine was being
checked Tuesday. Continental picked up the plane Friday.

   The carrier's Newark-to-Tokyo service starts Nov. 30 and its Houston-to-Tokyo
service starts Jan. 31.


   GeneMedicine gets patent on method


   GeneMedicine, a Woodlands company that develops gene therapy products, said
Tuesday it received a U.S. patent on a method that allows scientists to convert
liquid gene medicine into a dry powder formula using freeze-dried techniques.

   Until now, liquid gene medicine had to be stored at cold temperatures. The
freeze-dried powder medicine can now be stored on the shelf and easily
distributed, GeneMedicine said.

   The patent was issued jointly to GeneMedicine and the University of
California, with exclusive rights to GeneMedicine. The company, which is
developing gene therapy products for cancer, said it has already started
clinical trials using freeze-dried gene medicine.


   Metamor Worldwide to combine two units


   Metamor Worldwide announced Tuesday that it will combine its two business
units, Metamor Solutions and Comsys Information Technology Services, into a
single unit to create better brand awareness of the information technology
company.

   With that move, Ken Johnsen, currently president of Metamor Solutions, has
been promoted to president and chief operating officer of Metamor Worldwide.
Michael Willis, chairman and chief executive officer of Metamor Worldwide, is
giving up the title of president.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1998


                             1799 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1998 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                           October 7, 1998 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Novartis will contract out 79 service jobs

BYLINE: Edward R. Silverman, Star-Ledger Staff

BODY:

   As a result of a new labor agreement reached Monday night, Novartis Ltd. will
eliminate 79 jobs at its Summit facility next month and give those positions to
an outside contractor.

    The move is expected to save about $2.5 million annually during the next
three years, the length of the new contract with the International Chemical
Workers Union Council, which will continue to represent about 140 workers.

    The people whose jobs are being eliminated work in the facility's cafeteria
or janitorial services, although one job belongs to a chauffeur, who
occasionally drives Douglas Watson, the Swiss drug maker's U.S. chief executive,
to appointments. A Novartis spokeswoman said Watson and other executives will
continue to be chauffeured by other drivers.

    The move is part of Novartis' ongoing effort to cut costs in the wake of
last year's $27 billion merger between Sandoz AG and Ciba-Geigy AG. Since then,
Novartis has vowed to eliminate 12,000 jobs and save $1.8 billion over three
years.

    To reach that goal, Novartis has been offering buyouts at various locations,
including its U.S. headquarters in Summit and a manufacturing plant in Suffern,
N.Y. Recently, 90 jobs were cut in its cell and gene therapy operations in Palo
Alto, Calif., and Gaithersburg, Md.

    Another 110 jobs are being eliminated from a Minnesota-based nutrition
business and the Gerber baby foods unit in Michigan. Administrative offices from
both locations are being shifted to Summit, where up to 100 jobs may be added, a
Novartis spokesman said recently.

    By replacing its own employees with outside contractors, Novartis is
continuing a trend among companies to outsource. A 1996 survey conducted by the
American Management Association found that 94 percent of companies have
outsourced at least one activity.

    Novartis has already outsourced numerous jobs from other departments
following the merger. Recently, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. replaced 180 maintenance
jobs and Merck & Co.'s Medco unit outsourced 200 clerical jobs in Parsippany to
an out-of-state contractor.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007


                             1800 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1998 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post



                   October 07, 1998, Wednesday, Final Edition

NAME: PARRIS N. GLENDENING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2315 words

HEADLINE: Some Haze on Glendening's Sunny Day

BYLINE: Peter Behr, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   As Parris N. Glendening moved into the Maryland governor's office nearly four
years ago, some of the state's best-known companies were headed out of Maryland,
preparing to shift headquarters or major facilities to states where they felt
more welcome.

   MedImmune Inc., a promising biotechnology company in Gaithersburg, was about
to accept a $ 25 million offer to build its first full-scale factory outside
Cleveland. McCormick & Co., the 105-year-old Maryland spicemaker, was weighing
an offer from Pennsylvania to build a big new distribution center there.

   Glendening got on the phone to top executives at MedImmune and McCormick,
pleading for time to put financial offers from Maryland on the table.

   It worked. McCormick and MedImmune stayed put after state and local officials
anted up nearly $ 16 million in loans, grants and training funds for the two
companies. Most of the money came from the state's Sunny Day program, a fund
aimed at strengthening Maryland's hand in competing with its neighbors for
companies.

   As Glendening battles for a second term against Republican opponent Ellen R.
Sauerbrey, his record in bolstering the Sunny Day fund shows both the successes
and shortcomings of his effort to strengthen a Maryland economy whose growth
lagged behind the nation's during most of the '90s.

   By quadrupling funding for the Sunny Day program, Glendening has helped stop
what could have been an embarrassing exodus of high-profile companies from
Maryland. Yet despite the extra money and other initiatives -- including the
first major tax cut in three decades -- Maryland has had only limited success in
attracting dynamic new employers and developing what many corporate leaders
would consider a pro-business image. Most of the state's success has involved
keeping old jobs -- not attracting new ones.

   "Maryland still probably doesn't have the image that Virginia has cultivated
as a go-to place," said Robert Farley, a specialist in corporate relocation with
Deloitte & Touche. "It isn't considered as hot a market."

   In order to make that A list of target states, analysts said, Maryland would
have to make major policy changes limiting environmental regulation, cutting
taxes further and changing the state's pro-labor reputation.

   Glendening said the state has used the Sunny Day fund "very aggressively" --
and to good effect. "The economic improvement has been significant. All you have
to do is look at the bottom line," he said in an interview. "Sure, we have to
keep working on [economic] competitiveness. But I'm not about to undermine some
basic environmental regulations that protect the Chesapeake [Bay]. I don't buy
into the idea that we ought to be a right-to-work state."

   Sauerbrey, who opposed creation of the Sunny Day fund in 1988, said she now
would make selective use of state funds for major job-creation projects. But she
added: "The better solution to retaining jobs is to create a very strong
pro-business climate through regulatory reform, tax relief and good work-force
development, as opposed to having to hand out dollars to keep companies from
leaving. That's the difference between us."


   A Biotechnology Case


   If there was one business leader that the Glendening administration didn't
want to lose, it was William Haseltine, chairman and chief executive of Human
Genome Sciences Inc., in Rockville.

   Haseltine's company doesn't make steel, cars or paprika. It is developing
wonder drugs -- based on its pathfinding cataloging of human genes -- that if
successful could create a multibillion-dollar company and focus the world's
spotlight on Maryland's biotech industry.

   But as Haseltine's executives made plans last year for a major new facility
to test, and hopefully manufacture, its first products, Maryland was just one of
several contenders for the prize.

   The planned $ 45 million structure was a big undertaking, financially and
symbolically, for the six-year-old company, said Steven C. Mayer, Human Genome's
chief financial officer. "It is extremely important to our progress. And the
questions we faced were, 'Where do we put it?' and 'How do we finance it?' "

   Virginia and Pennsylvania had answers to those questions. Before long, Human
Genome and its consultants were looking at 130 potential sites in those states
and Maryland.

   Maryland and Montgomery County prevailed last October with a $ 2 million
Sunny Day loan, a $ 23 million, low-interest state construction loan backed in
part by state guarantees, and $ 6 million in other state and county assistance.
But they did so only after defeating what was originally a more generous offer
from Virginia.

   Mayer said Maryland's Sunny Day managers and county officials sat down and
worked with the company. "They tried to understand what we needed," he said. "We
have nothing but positive things to say about the state and the county."

   In return, Maryland will get at least 140 new jobs and "retains" 285 existing
jobs that might have migrated to Virginia if the facility had gone there, state
officials calculate. The new plant and the workers whose jobs have been created
or saved will produce $ 1.1 million in annual taxes, repaying Maryland's
investment in about a year and a half, the officials said.

   As a result of such deals, officials in some states neighboring Maryland have
noticed a difference. "Maryland has been doing a good job of keeping and growing
their business base," said Larry Rosenstrauch, Loudoun County's economic
development director. "They have had some awakening about the way they treat
their businesses."


   Playing Defense


   Early on in his tenure, Glendening tried to reach out to Maryland's business
community, which has long been disenchanted with the way state government
approached economic issues. Glendening tapped an array of business leaders to
serve on a strategic advisory committee and recruited James T. Brady, a
well-respected Baltimore business executive, to direct a renamed, refocused
Department of Business and Economic Development.

   Perhaps most significant, he dramatically pumped up the Sunny Day program,
which was created by his predecessor, William Donald Schaefer, but was funded at
a much lower level -- roughly $ 3.5 million in Schaefer's final year in office.
Since Glendening took office four years ago, the state has awarded $ 80 million
in loans and grants to four dozen companies, which have collectively pledged to
add 12,000 jobs, preserve 24,000 existing ones and invest $ 1.5 billion in new
facilities.

   Glendening channeled most of the Sunny Day funding to existing employers that
make up a who's who of Maryland industry. There is the old guard -- Bethlehem
Steel Corp., Bell Atlantic Corp., Domino Sugar Corp., McCormick & Co. and T.
Rowe Price Associates Inc. And the young technology companies that represent the
state's brightest hopes: Digene Corp., Genetic Therapy Inc., Manugistics Inc.,
HGSI and MedImmune Inc.

   "If you keep that [existing] customer base happy and growing, they'll bring
in their customers and suppliers," said James T. Fielder Jr., now acting
director of the Department of Business and Economic Development.

   But the jobs being created are only a small fraction of Maryland's 2.3
million salaried jobs. Some critics question Maryland's emphasis on helping
companies already in the state. Unlike Virginia, Pennsylvania and other rivals
that use funding to attract companies from outside their borders, twice as much
funding in Maryland has gone to preserving existing jobs as creating new ones.

   Rather than targeting high-growth companies with the strongest potential,
Maryland's Sunny Day funds have been widely dispersed to a dozen different
industries, mirroring Maryland's existing economy. Indeed, Sauerbrey and other
Republicans said the Sunny Day strategy is more political than economic.

   Finally, Glendening's critics said the improvement in the state's business
image has been undercut by decisions that have angered corporate leaders,
including his extension of collective bargaining rights to some state workers.

   Brady left Glendening's side this year in frustration with the governor's
economic policies, and he plans to endorse Sauerbrey. "The governor has been
very inconsistent with his message," he said.

   Jeffrey A. Finkle, executive director of the Council for Urban Economic
Development, said a state that has to work overtime just to hold on to its
existing core of businesses is having problems.

   "Virginia is not paying America Online and UUNet to expand there," Finkle
said. (But Virginia did enact tax changes that broadly benefit the information
technology industry that includes those companies.)


   Different Goals on Growth


   Some development officials said Maryland's public would not support an
all-out push to attract companies from outside the state with costly
state-funded incentives. "The challenge is to provide high-quality jobs for our
existing citizens, our normal family growth, jobs for young people entering the
work force that will support families," said David Edgerley, Montgomery County's
economic development director.

   "Our goals are not to attract runaway expansion of our population and
transportation congestion," he added. "We have a mentality that favors 'smart'
growth."

   But is Maryland pursuing strategic growth? Except for the support to HGSI,
MedImmune and four other biotech firms, the Sunny Day program doesn't follow a
focused development strategy, said William S. Ratchford II, who for many years
headed the Maryland legislature's Department of Fiscal Services and oversaw the
Sunny Day program. "It really doesn't target anything," he added.

   With several notable exceptions, Ratchford said, "it's been used mainly for
smaller projects that, while worthwhile, don't meet the concept of extraordinary
opportunities. They are solid, sound, but not extraordinary."

   Nearly half of the $ 80 million in Sunny Day funding has gone to
manufacturing and construction firms, while only 10 percent has gone to
information technology services and 13 percent to biotech firms. Some leaders of
Maryland's technology community said the Sunny Day strategy has been too spread
out, too diffuse.

   "We're hoping that technology will take a much more spotlighted position
under the continuation of this administration or a new one," said Jane Shaab,
executive director of the Greater Baltimore Committee's Technology Council.
"We're still sort of scattershot, rather than being targeted."

   Glendening replied that some legislators are constantly urging him to use the
fund to help the state's depressed areas. Others want to see funding steered to
"Smart Growth" projects to combat suburban sprawl, to biotech firms or to
manufacturing. "We have strategies for all these different industries. We're
trying to use the fund to carry out those strategies," Glendening said.

   Glendening's approach may reflect a politically divided state that has not
concluded that it wants to be in a footrace for growth with Virginia and other
more economically dynamic states, some experts said.

   Ioanna Morfessis, who grew up in Maryland, ran Montgomery County's economic
development efforts, left for a similar job in Phoenix, and has returned to run
the Greater Baltimore Alliance development program, said Marylanders must decide
how much growth they want.

   "The state suffers from an image we earned years and years ago as a
pro-labor, high-cost, high-tax, business-unfriendly place. The reality is we
have done a lot to improve that under the Glendening administration. I'm not
sure we've effectively marketed that story.

   "I don't think Maryland right now is prepared" to compete with Virginia and
other high-growth states," she added. "People lack an understanding of what it
takes to be truly competitive. I don't think there's a will to do what it
takes."



   Spending for a Sunny Day


   Gov. Parris N. Glendening quadrupled the size of the state's Sunny Day
incentive fund -- state money used either to lure new businesses into the area
or to keep old businesses from leaving -- in the last four years. Sunny Day
loans and grants from 1996 to 1998 were awarded to counties throughout the
state, with a high concentration along the Washington-Baltimore corridor.


   County Sunny Dayshare Sunny Day funds*


   Anne Arunde l19.1% $ 15,324

   Baltimore 27.7 22,260

   Baltimore County 7.1 5,675

   Caroline 1.0 800

   Carroll 0.3 250

   Frederick 6.8 5,500

   Garrett 1.1 850

   Harford 4.7 3,750

   Howard 6.3 5,072

   Montgomery 13.7 11,000

   Prince George's 4.4 3,500

   Washington 6.7 5,400

   Wicomico 1.2 1,000


   TOTAL 100% $ 80,381


   Manufacturing and construction lead the field for Sunny Day grants and loans.

   Biotechnology -- 13.2%

   Distribution -- 12.8%

   Financial services -- 5.2%

   Health care -- 5.0%

   Mfg./construction -- 47.7%

   Tech services -- 5.6%

   Telecommunications -- 4.4%

   Other -- 6.1%

   NOTE: Some projects helping several counties are listed under the county
getting the largest benefit. Counties not listed did not receive Sunny Day
funds.


   SOURCE: Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development

    Jim Hulse checks temperatures of biological materials made at MedImmune,
which got incentives to expand in Maryland. William Haseltine, chairman of Human
Genome Sciences Inc., is putting his company's new $ 45 million drug-testing
plant in Montgomery County. James T. Brady led Glendening's economic development
effort but plans to back his GOP opponent.



GRAPHIC: Illustration; map(This graphic was not available); Photo, SUSAN BIDDLE;
Photo, LARRY MORRIS

LOAD-DATE: October 07, 1998
