
                             2801 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         MAY 31, 1996 Friday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: MONTHS AFTER FETAL SURGERY, A HEALTHY BABY HEADS HOME

BYLINE: Susan FitzGerald, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Seventeen-day-old Roberto Rodriguez 3d left the hospital yesterday, 3 1/2
months after he was operated on for a deadly condition while still in his
mother's womb.

   His mother was 22 weeks pregnant, about four months from her due date, when
doctors at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia cut open her uterus, partially
removed the half-pound fetus, took out a large growth destroying his left lung,
and then tucked the fetus back into the womb.

   Thirteen weeks after the surgery, Roberto was born with a healthy set of
lungs.

   When Roberto let out a loud cry moments after his birth on May 13, "I knew
that a miracle really did take place," said his mother, Felicia Rodriguez, of
West Palm Beach, Fla.

   The baby is a testament to growing fields of medicine - fetal therapy and
surgery.

   Since 1983, at least 300 fetuses have been operated on for a variety of
life-threatening problems, including malformed hearts and urinary tract defects,
and more than 2,000 fetuses have received blood transfusions, according to Dr.
Frank Manning, who maintains an international fetal surgery registry at the
University of Manitoba in Canada. There have been two reports of fetal surgery
for spina bifida, a potentially paralyzing spinal defect.

   The operations have not all been successful, and some fetuses have died as a
result. One risk of the surgery is that it can send the mother into premature
labor, causing the baby to be born so early that survival is impossible.

   Still, doctors foresee the day when they will not only be fixing more and
more physical defects in utero, but also doing gene therapy for inherited
diseases such as cystic fibrosis, and fetal bone marrow transplants to correct
blood disorders such as sickle-cell anemia and thalassemia, and certain immune
system problems.

   The field is being fueled by advances in prenatal screening, such as
ultrasound and genetic tests, that are allowing doctors to pick up problems
that, previously, were only discovered at birth.

   "There is no question that the unborn child is a patient," said Dr. N. Scott
Adzick, who operated on Roberto and serves as director of the new Center for
Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment at Children's Hospital.

   Roberto was the first case of fetal surgery at Children's, one of a few
centers around the country doing such surgery. The hospital has since done two
more cases.

   Felicia Rodriguez and her husband, Roberto, had just gotten home Jan. 29
after hearing the good news that she was pregnant with a boy, when her doctor
called to say there was something terribly wrong.

   The same ultrasound test that had revealed the baby's sex showed there was a
large mass growing in the left lung.

   The noncancerous growth, called a congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation
(CCAM), was so large it was taking over the entire chest cavity and squeezing
against the heart. It was only a matter of time before the fetus would develop a
dangerous buildup of fluid and die of congestive heart failure.

   The Rodriguezes' doctors gave them three choices: have an abortion, wait the
pregnancy out even though the fetus was sure to die and could threaten the
health of Mrs. Rodriguez, or fetal surgery.

   The couple didn't hesitate to pick the third one because "it offered hope. .
. . I wanted to be sure I would do everything possible to give my baby a
chance," said Felicia Rodriguez, 25, who works in a cancer treatment center.

   Two weeks later, after an ultrasound test showed that fluid was building up
in the fetus, the couple were on their way to Philadelphia.

   For the surgery on Feb. 16, Felicia Rodriguez was put under general
anesthesia, which in turn put the fetus to sleep. Adzick and assistant surgeon
Timothy Crombleholme began by making an incision in the lower abdomen, similar
to one done for a caesarean section. They then cut through the uterus and Adzick
gently lifted the fetus, no bigger than an adult hand, so the tiny left hand and
left side of the chest were sticking out. A monitoring device was placed on the
hand to keep a check on the heart rate during surgery.

   Adzick next cut into the fetus' chest, gently spread the ribs and cut out the
huge mass that had taken over. Suddenly, the fetal heart rate dropped to a
dangerously low level and Adzick quickly began to massage the heart. To help
stabilize the fetus, Adzick gave him a blood transfusion.

   When the surgery was done, warm saline solution was pumped into the mother's
uterus to bathe the fetus until the supply of amniotic fluid was naturally
replenished. The entire surgery lasted just 1 1/2 hours.

   The big fear after the operation was that the mother would go into premature
labor. She was given medication to ward off contractions and ordered to stay off
her feet. An ultrasound test two weeks after surgery showed that the lung
appeared to be growing normally.

   Felicia Rodriguez passed three months on bed rest at the Ronald McDonald
House in West Philadelphia, which provides housing to families whose children
are hospitalized. On May 13, it was obvious the baby would wait no longer.

   Roberto was born by caesarean section five weeks' premature, weighing in at 6
1/2 pounds. Tests after birth showed that the baby's lungs are perfectly normal.

   Roberto was discharged from the hospital yesterday and will fly back to
Florida with his mother in a few days. His father and big sister, Macy, 5, will
be waiting for them.

   Adzick was there for the baby's birth.

   "The kid cried and had a thick head of hair," he said. "It was wonderful."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO (2)
1. A pulse monitor was placed on a tiny hand during the surgery here in
February. The patient's chest and left arm protruded from an incision in his
mother. (For The Inquirer, PAUL CRANE)
2. Felicia Rodriguez with her son, Roberto, 17 days old, healthy and ready to go
home. (The Philadelphia Inquirer, APRIL SAUL)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2802 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                      May 31, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 53 words

BODY:


   A timeline accompanying a Federal Page story on Wednesday about the
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee mischaracterized a 1992 effort to bypass the
committee. It was a former federal government consultant, not a scientist, who
sought to bypass the committee to get gene therapy for his wife with brain
cancer.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996May 31, 1996


                             2803 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     May 29, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: It May Be Over for Biotech Oversight Panel

BYLINE: Rick Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   It looks like the RAC is getting hung out to dry.

   The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, a venerable panel of scientists,
ethicists and other experts at the National Institutes of Health that for two
decades has shined the spotlight of public accountability on the genetics
revolution, is poised to get its plug pulled.

   This week, said NIH director Harold E. Varmus, a notice will be placed in the
Federal Register proposing that the committee be disbanded. The public will have
15 days to comment before a decision becomes final.

   The group's dissolution will mark the end of an historic era of scientific
oversight. Since the RAC's inception in 1975, its two dozen members have
provided key guidance to this country's rapidly growing field of genetic
engineering as it progressed from the earliest gene-splicing experiments in
bacteria to what today is the nearly routine manipulation of human genes.

   Among the RAC's most notable accomplishments were the creation of the first
safety guidelines for scientists wishing to create genetically engineered
microbes, the first formal review system for proposals to insert new genes into
people, and the first approval of a human gene therapy experiment, performed in
1990 on a four-year-old Ohio girl suffering from a potentially fatal immune
system disorder.

   Varmus said that the committee, which until recently scrutinized every
proposal to perform gene-alterations in people, had outlived its usefulness. He
said that although no gene therapy experiment had yet succeeded in its goal of
curing cancer or an inherited disease, most proposals today are straightforward
enough that they can be reviewed directly by the Food and Drug Administration.

   The FDA traditionally has considered only those proposals already approved by
the RAC. But under an experimental program inaugurated last year, many proposals
have leapfrogged the RAC and gone straight to the FDA.

   Varmus said that in place of the RAC he would convene ad hoc committees as
needed to discuss new and controversial questions relating to gene therapy --
such as the appropriateness of putting new genes into fetuses, or of "cosmetic"
gene therapy not designed to cure a disease.

   "The scientific issues will continue to be addressed at fora, with experts
called upon to discuss the particular issue," Varmus said.

   Others, however, said that since FDA meetings are not open to the public --
and since ad hoc committees would deal with general topics but not specific
proposals -- citizens will lose their last opportunity to see exactly what gene
jockeys are planning to do next.

   "Basically, it's the demise of public overview," said gene therapy pioneer W.
French Anderson, now at the University of Southern California's Norris Cancer
Center, who struggled for years to gain approval from the RAC for the nation's
first gene therapy experiment -- a landmark procedure he finally helped perform
in September 1990.

   "I took a lot of grief from them," Anderson said of the RAC, recalling the
sometimes humiliating rejections he endured and the repeated exhortations to go
back and create a safer and surer way of putting new genes into people. "But it
was a very good thing. And the only way the public knew what was going on was
because everything was open, and [biotechnology critic] Jeremy Rifkin was there,
and the press was there."

   Longtime RAC member Abbey S. Meyers, president of the National Organization
for Rare Disorders, in New Fairfield, Conn., said she was concerned about the
prospect of leaving gene therapy completely in the hands of the FDA, since that
agency's focus was much narrower than the RAC's. "The FDA can only reject
proposals on the basis of safety and efficacy," she said. "The RAC had the
opportunity to veto proposals on ethical grounds."

   Meyers rejected Varmus's contention that institutional review boards at the
universities where gene therapy experiments are conducted can be counted on to
weed out unworthy studies. Those boards have neither the expertise nor the
incentive to critically assess gene therapy experiments, she said.

   "They are being reviewed by people who don't know anything about it but are
desperate for their institution to become a gene therapy center," Meyers said.
"We have seen informed consent forms approved by IRBs that are unbelievable,"
she added, referring to the forms that are supposed to inform prospective
subjects about the risks and benefits of participating in a clinical trial.

   Others said they were hopeful that science would survive the demise of the
RAC.

   Nelson Wivel, director of the NIH Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, which
oversees the RAC, said the office would remain intact and would continue one of
its major missions: keeping a registry of all gene therapy experiments underway
in the country, which at last count amounted to 149. Wivel said the office would
also keep a permanent staff of advisers on board, which he hoped would maintain
the RAC's "institutional memory."


CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 1996

CORRECTION:

   A timeline accompanying a Federal Page story on Wednesday about the
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee mischaracterized a 1992 effort to bypass the
committee. It was a former federal government consultant, not a scientist, who
sought to bypass the committee to get gene therapy for his wife with brain
cancer.

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post, REGULATING GENE THERAPY -- A
CHRONOLOGY 1975: NIH creates the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities in
response to public fears about gene-splicing experiments in bacteria.  1976:
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC) begins to develop guidelines for
gene-splicing experiments in microbes.  1976 to 1978: RAC starts identifying
certain strains of bacteria that can be safely used in gene-splicing
experiments.  1980: UCLA researcher receiving NIH funding goes abroad and
performs gene therapy experiments on children with a blood disorder, prompting
fears of rampant eugenic experiments.  1980 to 1982: A presidential commission
and a Senate committee headed by then Sen.-Al Gore conclude that insufficient
regulations are in place relating to manipulation of human genes.  1983: The RAC
establishes a working group to develop scientific and ethical guidelines for
human gene therapy experiments.  1986: RAC working group finishes its "points to
consider" document, a landmark collection of considerations to guide scientists
wishing to perform gene therapy experiments in people.  1987: RAC spins off a
human gene therapy subcommittee to deal with proposals for human experiments,
and NIH scientist W. French Anderson offers the subcommittee the world's first
formal proposal to perform gene therapy on patients.  1988: RAC approves
Anderson's request to perform preliminary experiments designed to test the
feasability of gene therapy in people.  July 31, 1990: Human gene therapy
subcommittee and full RAC approve Anderson's request to perform gene therapy on
a girl with a potentially fatal immune system disorder.  Sept. 14, 1990: First
federally approved gene therapy experiment performed.  1992: A San Diego
researcher gets help from Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) to bypass the RAC and get
quick approval of an unapproved gene therapy experiment for his wife, who is
dying of brain cancer. This highlights the problem of slow approvals and prompts
fears that gene ther

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996May 29, 1996


                             2804 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)



                             May 28, 1996, Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL & NATIONAL, Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTIONARY LEFTOVER MAY AID GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: David Lore, Dispatch Science Reporter

BODY:


   All living things carry evolutionary keepsakes - outdated bits and pieces
that no longer function but remain stored in biology's attic.

   Last week, however, geneticists at Ohio State University pulled out one dusty
old part - a primitive form of genetic material called introns or ''junk DNA'' -
and declared it a possibly useful tool for use in modern genetics.

   Writing in the science journal Nature, a research group headed by Ohio
Eminent Scholar Alan Lambowitz said that these billion-year-old structures have
attributes that could make them particularly useful in improving the
effectiveness of modern gene therapy.

   Only a few years ago, introns were thought to be leftovers from the Age of
Bacteria, pre-DNA parasites that reproduced by inserting themselves in primitive
organisms, Lambowitz said.

   ''Our new findings, however, show that they can move around and insert
themselves into different genes,'' he said. This interests scientists who want
to insert genetic material at a specific location in DNA (deoxyribonucleic
acid), he said. One might, for example, want to insert missing genes or destroy
harmful genes or viruses.

   ''Before, it was like a shotgun - you could put these things in but there was
not much control over where it would go,'' he said.

   Without such control, the new genetic material might not produce the intended
results. It might do damage by activating harmful genes, possibly causing
cancer.

   Just how molecular geneticists might use introns ''is fairly complex, even by
the standards of this field,'' said Lambowitz. It basically involves using
introns as vehicles to carry desired genetic information to targeted sites on
the DNA molecule, the destination being determined by coding intron RNA
(ribonucleic acid) and proteins.

   It works in the test tube with yeasts, he said, but it hasn't been tried in
living organisms. Nevertheless, OSU filed last fall for a patent on the process,
expecting that it will prove useful in gene therapy approaches to cancer and
AIDS.

   OSU doctoral student Jian Yang, who did most of the recent experiments, is
lead author on the Nature article with Lambowitz, postdoctoral researcher Steven
Zimmerly and Dallas biochemist Philip Perlman.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996


                             2805 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                      May 27, 1996, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: DISCOVERY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: AFFAIRS OF THE HEART;
Coronary bypass, balloon are best treatment for getting around narrow, clogged
arteries

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   The heart normally pumps four to five liters of blood each
minute and beats 4 million times per year.

   This enormous expenditure of energy must be fed by nutrients
brought to each heart cell via small blood vessels called the
coronary arteries.

   When fatty plaque builds up in areas of these heart muscles,
it narrows the artery and decreases blood flow, resulting in a
condition called atherosclerosis.

   When the demand for blood is increased, blocked arteries may
not deliver enough blood.  Then the person suffers angina or
chest pains.

   If the artery closes suddenly, the loss of blood flow can
cause permanent heart damage - resulting in a heart attack.

   Obviously, it is in the patient's best interest to keep blood
flowing.

   To combat the chances of developing heart illnesses, it is
best to prevent the buildup of fatty plaque early on, through
careful diet, exercise and forgoing bad habits such as
smoking.  But that is not always possible, and sometimes
doctors must intervene to change the blood flow through the
heart.

   Since the late 1970s, two methods used to treat such heart
ailments have gained prominence - coronary artery bypass and
balloon angioplasty, which involves X-rays and catheters and a
balloon.

   Coronary artery bypass is a major surgical procedure that
involves splitting the breast bone and stopping the heart so
that surgeons can sew pieces of artery into the coronary to
bypass the blocked areas.

   In the late 1970s, balloon angioplasty was a new, less drastic
procedure.  A catheter or thin plastic tube is fed through a
blood vessel in the leg into the coronary arteries.  When the
catheter reaches an area that is dangerously narrowed, doctors
called interventional cardiologists insert a smaller catheter
inside the first.  This catheter has a balloon attached.

   When the second catheter reaches the narrowed area, the
doctors inflate the balloon, which compresses the fatty plaque
against the artery walls.  This increases the artery's diameter
and the blood flow through it.

   According to the American Heart Association, an estimated
485,000 bypass procedures are performed annually on 309,000
patients - nearly three-quarters of them men.  Nearly half of
the procedures (47 percent) are performed on people under the
age of 47.

   The AHA estimates that 398,000 angioplasties are performed on
362,000 patients in a year.  Again most of the patients are men
and under the age of 65.

   A study at Emory University in Atlanta found that the initial
costs of angioplasty at an average of $ 11,684 were lower than
those for bypass at $ 14,579.  However, because between
one-third and one-half of angioplasties close again within six
months of the first procedure, the cost advantage is lost over
time.

   Patients whose heart vessels close again must undergo another
angioplasty or bypass surgery.

   The advantages of angioplasty are that when it works, the
success is virtually immediate, there is less risk, and
recovery is quicker than for bypass patients.

   Doctors now are experimenting with stents (little wire coils)
that can keep the coronary arteries open longer and with drugs
that will prevent the buildup of plaque in areas where the
arteries have narrowed.

   Researchers are also developing new genetic therapies that
will prevent the narrowing process and eliminate a major cause
of death in the United States and the world.

   ___________________________________

   How a minimally invasive direct coronary bypass is performed.

   A new heart bypass technique to reduce the incision and
eliminate the need to stop the heart is gaining popularity
among surgeons around the world.

   A. After a small incision is made in the chest, portions of
rib cartilage are removed to give the surgeon access to one of
the mammary arteries.

   B.As the segment of cartilage is taken out, the internal
mammary artery and vein can be seen.

   C. The mammary artery is then dissected out of its spot in the
heart.

   D. The left anterior descending artery (LAD), which is
blocked, has been stabilized with sutures so that its motion
is reduced.  A portion of it is then dissected or lifted out of
the surrounding tissue.

   E. A small cut is made in the left anterior descending artery
and the internal mammary artery is sewn into that cut with
fine polypropylene suture material.


GRAPHIC: Graph: How a minimally invasive direct coronary bypass is performed
(text); Houston Chronicle, Source: Texas Heart Institute

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996


                             2806 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                       May 26, 1996, Sunday, City Edition

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 4237 words

HEADLINE: Sounding the alarm;
Like splitting the atom, tinkering with human genes raises serious ethical and
scientific concerns. Three prominent Harvard scientists have long been outspoken
critics of unchecked gene research, and even proponents say the trio is
sharpening the debate.

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

    It's truly a sign of the times. The double helix - that spiraling ladder of
the DNA molecule - has become one of the most powerful icons of the '90s. No
longer merely a scientific schematic, it is now a staple of pop culture.  It
appears time and again in op-ed pieces, newspaper and magazine articles, and
books that tackle the thorny dilemmas of the genetic revolution. Often, the
strands are shown entangling helpless people in their coils. Countless
"genes-jeans" puns afflict apparel advertising. There's even a perfume called
DNA, encased in a twisting, double-helix bottle, suggesting a fragrance that is
natural but potent. Indeed, like the atomic-energy symbol of the 1950s, the
double helix reflects the hopes and fears of an age.

   If the symbol is powerful, that's because the ideas behind it are, too.  DNA
is the stuff of genes, the 100,000 units of coded information in each human cell
that represent an individual's hereditary archive. An explosion of research has
uncovered many previously unknown genes that, when mutant, play a role in
causing serious diseases. At the same time, genes are being found that influence
not only physical traits like hair color and height but also some aspects of
human behavior. If "nurture" was the rallying cry of the 1960s, when changing
the social environment through Great Society-style programs seemed the surest
way to better lives, the pendulum has swung back in the last 25 years toward
"nature" and the belief that genes are decisive components of what and who we
are and how we behave.

   In recent years, researchers have claimed that homosexuality, schizophrenia,
alcoholism, risk taking, violent behavior, and even basic temperamental traits
like shyness are governed by genetic variations. Although many of the findings
supporting these claims have not been confirmed, that has not slowed the search.
A recent tongue-in-cheek article in The New York Times Magazine went so far as
to posit a gene for bad taste, a defective "style gene" causing a "congenital
inability to put together an outfit." The impact of genetic research on public
attitudes and policies, however, is no laughing matter.

   Just as splitting the atom posed immense risks to society, so does the
newfound ability to identify and to tinker with human genes. For example, will
revealing individuals' medical vulnerabilities create "genetic pariahs," who are
unable to get insurance or jobs? Will, or should, gene techniques be used to
"enhance" human skills or to prevent the births of infants who a gene test
predicts will develop a serious disease later in life? Is the spate of gene
discoveries fueling a resurgence of biological determinism, the belief that
human behavior is largely determined by genes?

   At the same time that alarms are being sounded about the social and ethical
dilemmas raised by gene research, enthusiasts have been forced to concede that
its benefits may be further off than had been thought. Gene therapy - the
replacement of defective genes - has long been billed as a way to prevent and
treat previously intractable diseases. But today, 15 or 20 years after the first
predictions that gene technology would greatly improve health, scientists have
been far more successful in finding defective genes than in fixing or replacing
them.

   While the public may only recently be tuning in to the ethical and scientific
issues raised by gene research, three Harvard science professors - Richard C.
Lewontin, Ruth Hubbard, and Jonathan Beckwith - have been prominent critics of
such research for years. All three are respected biological scientists in their
60s or 70s. All have left-wing political views. All are affiliated with the
Council for Responsible Genetics, in Cambridge, which advocates caution in
applying genetic research - although the trio's criticisms of genetic technology
long predate the council's founding, in 1983. And, while some in the genetic
field write off the Harvard critics' views as too driven by ideology and overly
pessimistic, most agree that the three have helped sharpen one of the most
important scientific debates of our time.

   The focus of the Cambridge scientists' criticism is something that Lewontin
calls "genomania," the idea that almost everything - a baby's chin or nose,
someone's personality quirks, or a preponderance of men in positions of power -
can be explained by genes. "There is at present no aspect of social or
individual life that is not claimed for the genes," complains Lewontin. He
contends that a misplaced fascination with genes "is now the unexamined
consciousness propagated by journalists and scientists alike."

   Lewontin, an evolutionary geneticist, stresses that he is not denying the
important role that genes play in human development. "I happen to be a person
who thinks that genes influence everything," he says. But, as he put it in a
talk this past winter, "one should not fall victim to genetic nuttiness" - a
condition that he now finds epidemic. The nature-nurture debate has played
itself out most recently in the heated controversy over the book The Bell Curve,
by Charles Murray and the late Richard Herrnstein, which asserts that blacks do
worse than whites on IQ tests for mostly genetic reasons. Like Lewontin, Hubbard
and Beckwith accept that genes, with their storehouse of hereditary information,
are critical in influencing who we are. But they believe that genes are not as
decisive in the development of human beings as many scientists claim. Lewontin
and the others give more credit to non-genetic factors, including unpredictable,
accidental changes in a developing organism, as well as to a wide range of
environmental factors. Look, these critics say, at the enormous differences
among genetically identical plants raised in different soils and climates. This,
they say, shows how environment can outweigh genetics.

   The three Cambridge scientists take somewhat different approaches in
presenting their case. Lewontin couches his arguments in impish humor and an
erudite style, in articles for The New York Review of Books and lectures at
colleges and universities. Beckwith and Hubbard are more often found taking a
dissenting role on panels and in symposiums on the ethical dilemmas of gene
research or writing op-ed pieces for the Globe and other newspapers. Hubbard and
her son, Elijah Wald, collaborated on a book, Exploding the Gene Myth, in 1993.
Earlier this month, Lewontin and Hubbard authored an opinion piece, "Pitfalls of
Genetic Testing," in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine.

   In their dissent, the Harvard scientists are arrayed against an increasingly
powerful academic-industrial complex, a juggernaut of fast-moving research and
applications of genetic discoveries. Equipped with recently completed maps of
the chromosomes on which genes are located, scientists are in a frenzy of gene
discovery. Looming over the landscape is the federally funded Human Genome
Project, a 15-year, $ 3 billion effort to locate, identify, and decipher
information in all human genes. A genome is the complete set of all genes
carried by an organism.

   Companies also are being founded on the assumption that, by pinpointing the
genes responsible for diseases, it will be possible to intervene - through novel
drugs or gene therapy - at the root of the condition instead of merely treating
symptoms. They promise nothing less than a revolution in diagnosis, treatment,
and prevention.

   The Harvard critics, however, say that, while these optimistic visions may
sell stock and help ensure funding for the Human Genome Project, they
underestimate the difficulties ahead. They point out that genetic defects have
been known for years to contribute to inherited diseases such as sickle cell
anemia, but that scientists have yet to translate this knowledge into effective
treatments based on genes. Such "therapies do not exist," Lewontin has said,
"nor is it clear, when actual cases are considered, how therapies will flow from
a knowledge of DNA sequences."

   Hubbard agrees: "If there are medical benefits, they will be way down the
road." Indeed, that road is looking longer today than a few years ago. For one
thing, the mere discovery of a mutant gene tells scientists little about how
changes in that gene produce disease. And it has proven more difficult than
expected to predict what form a disease will take by studying the many different
mutations that can occur in a gene. A committee convened by Harold Varmus, the
director of the National Institutes of Health, in Bethesda, Maryland, concluded
last December that gene therapy has been oversold and advised scientists to
return to more basic research on gene-therapy techniques before trying them on
patients.

   Most of the diseases that are being tackled by genetic researchers today are
so-called single-gene conditions, such as cystic fibrosis, muscular dystrophy,
and Huntington's disease. Because these diseases involve only one mutant gene
that causes the cell to fail to make a normal protein, these are theoretically
"simple" problems. Yet they have not proved simple to treat. And, the critics
say, it will be immensely harder and more time-consuming to solve the problems
of more complex diseases - such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes - that
are caused by the interaction of numerous genes and environmental factors.

   And the critics argue that spending large sums of money on research with such
an uncertain payback distorts health priorities. Instead, Hubbard says, society
should work to improve conditions of poverty, malnutrition, and unequal access
to traditional medical care.

   Hubbard also worries about eugenics, the effort to improve the hereditary
qualities of a population. She is concerned about a more insidious kind of
eugenics than was practiced by Hitler, who wanted to "purify" the Aryan race, or
by some eugenics enthusiasts in the United States earlier in this century. "This
will be something that individual parents will be expected to do by choice," she
says. "I have a nightmare scenario, where insurers or the state would say, 'If
you want to have a child with a given genetic disorder, that's your business,
but you will have to pay yourself' " for the medical care of a severely disabled
child. In the brave new world of gene research, critics particularly worry about
the search for "susceptibility genes." These are the mutant genes inherited by
some people that make them especially prone to cancer, heart disease,
Alzheimer's disease, or other illnesses. Already, companies are racing to sell
tests that can identify those who harbor such genes. The problem, says Hubbard,
is that people who find they carry genes predisposing them to Huntington's
disease or early-onset Alzheimer's or some rare cancers can do little at the
moment to prevent or treat those conditions.

   Nonetheless, many scientists believe that the information is useful and
should be available to those who want it. Walter Gilbert, a Harvard molecular
biologist and Nobel laureate who is on the board of directors of Myriad
Genetics, a Salt Lake City company, says that discovering susceptibility genes
will lead to more-efficient and more-powerful ways of testing treatments in the
future. As a result, he says, "it will move medicine steadily toward
prevention."

   Hubbard disagrees. In her book, Exploding the Gene Myth, she turns again to
the notion of misplaced priorities. "Surely, it would be better to educate
everyone about the imdossiers, listing diseases to which they are prone, could
well lead to their rejection by health or life insurers or by employers.
Beckwith and other scientists affiliated with the Council for Responsible
Genetics recently published a report detailing cases of genetic discrimination.
Concerned about such discrimination, some states - including California and New
Hampshire, but not Massachusetts - have already passed laws against genetic
discrimination.

   In addition to seeking legislative remedies, activists have turned to the
courts. When two US Marines were court-martialed this spring for refusing to
give blood for a DNA sample that would be kept in a data bank for identification
purposes, the Council for Responsible Genetics filed a friend-of-the-court brief
and held news conferences to publicize the issue. It argued that nothing would
prevent the DNA samples from being used for other purposes and might result in
discrimination by future employers or insurers. Because of such concerns, the
Defense Department moderated its stance, deciding that members of the armed
forces would have the right to have their samples removed from the data bank
upon their release from the service. Of all the issues raised by gene research,
the one that rankles the three Harvard critics most deeply is "behavior
genetics" - the search for genes that govern various types of human behavior.
Beckwith, Hubbard, Lewontin, and others who object to this line of research
believe that if such genes are found, they would be used to single out
"abnormal," "aberrant," or "dangerous" individuals, who might then be treated,
confined, or, in some way, stigmatized.

   So far, as the three critics are fond of pointing out, several claims that
particular behavior genes had been isolated collapsed when further research
could not duplicate the findings. "At best, behavioral genetics is a fishing
expedition by people who have a wide spectrum of attitudes and motivations,"
says Beckwith. He says people come up to him after a talk and say, for example,
"Don't you really believe that poor people just don't have what it takes" in
genetic terms?

   Beckwith and the others are equally leery of the continuing efforts in some
scientific quarters to search for genetic roots of violence, aggression, and
other antisocial behavior. "If we're going to use genetic screening to test
little black boys for genes for aggressivity, that's not good," says Hubbard
bluntly. "If people are going to use this technology to get quick answers to
complicated questions, we're going to be in trouble."

   The complications are profound. While no doubt there are inherited factors in
behavior, it is, after all, much harder to define types of behavior than it is
to diagnose physical diseases. This makes studies on genetic bases of behavior
difficult. Second, most scientists agree that behaviors probably result from the
interaction of many genes, each having a small effect, and these genetic
factors, in turn, interact with many environmental influences. "Every biological
object, but especially a human being, is the nexus of a large number of weakly
interacting causes," Lewontin says. "It is this structure of interaction of
multiple causal pathways that makes living creatures free in a way that
inanimate objects are not."

   It would seem to be an enormous task to locate genes in these cases, but some
scientists at the National Institutes of Health and elsewhere remain confident
that this work eventually will pay off in improved diagnosis and treatment of
stubborn mental disorders, like schizophrenia. Despite similar political views,
Hubbard, Lewontin, and Beckwith took different paths to their current position
as vocal critics of unchecked gene research.

   Ruth Hubbard, a professor emerita of biology at Harvard, seems to show up the
most often as a gadfly in the growing number of public forums on genetic
research. She has been sharply critical of companies' plans to offer testing for
genes that would denote susceptibility to breast cancer, saying such testing is
pointless because women can do little to reduce their risk if they learn they
carry such a gene.

   Hubbard says that she came to the genetic controversy through her interest in
women's issues and, particularly, those having to do with the "medicalization"
of birth - the pressures on women to have prenatal diagnosis, for example, and
the advent of "test-tube baby" technology, which she opposed because she thought
it could open the door to genetic tinkering. The daughter of two physicians,
Hubbard immigrated to the Boston area from her native Vienna before World War
II. Hubbard, who holds a PhD in biology from Radcliffe, contributed important
research on proteins involved in vision earlier in her career, but in recent
years she has focused on the sociology of science.

   Outspoken and acerbic, Hubbard, 72, can raise the temperature of public
discussions, and scientists with different views have sometimes avoided
appearing in forums with her. Nevertheless, because she speaks from the
scientist's point of view as well as from the consumer's, she is often the
chosen dissenter in media stories and symposiums.

   Lewontin, who has long described himself as a Marxist, has the most
all-encompassing political viewpoint and uncompromising opposition to much of
human-genetics research. After graduating from Harvard in 1951, he did graduate
work at Columbia University and quickly made a name for himself in the highly
specialized field of population genetics, that is, studying how genetic
variations occur and spread through large numbers of people. He was elected to
the prestigious National Academy of Sciences in the late 1960s, but later
resigned because the academy's research arm was funding secret defense studies.
He came to Harvard in 1973 and, that year, was named the Alexander Agassiz
professor of biology.

   Beginning in the 1970s, he frequently jousted with E. O. Wilson and other
supporters of sociobiology, a school of thought that suggests that human
behavior is the product of evolutionary forces. Like fellow critics Hubbard and
Beckwith, Lewontin attacked this view as justifying the unequal status of, for
example, women, minorities, and the poor. More recently, Lewontin co-authored an
argument against the use of DNA fingerprinting in court cases.

   Today, at 67, Lewontinill runs a genetics laboratory at Harvard and oversees
junior researchers. He divides his time between Cambridge and Marlboro, Vermont,
where he serves on the volunteer fire department.

   Jonathan Beckwith was swept into the media spotlight in 1969, when he
achieved the first isolation of a single gene - the lac gene from E. coli
bacteria. Opposition to the war in Vietnam was at a high pitch, and Beckwith,
active in the antiwar movement, saw links between the horrors of Vietnam and the
dangers of genetic technology. At the news conference announcing his scientific
discovery, he voiced fears about how governments might exploit the power of the
new genetic technology.

   "I found myself talking about the potential use of high technology in Vietnam
and also about the potential abuses of genetics," he recalls. "I felt we were
not far from the point when people would be modifying human genes. I found
myself thinking more about Hitler and eugenics."

   Nearly three decades later, Beckwith, who is 60 and now the American Cancer
Society research professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard
Medical School, still is concerned about these kinds of issues. He and several
others maintain a "genetic-screening study group" that meets frequently to
critique media accounts and new scientific reports of gene discoveries and to
work on projects aimed at educating the media and the public about genetics and
society. The study group is the sole remnant of Science for the People, a
"radical science" organization to which Hubbard, Lewontin, and Beckwith all
belonged until it faded away in the 1980s. Like the trio's current crusade,
Science for the People was designed, in Beckwith's words, "to demystify
scientific issues for the public and to expose the political influences on
scientific research and its uses." While their arguments are not likely to slow
the pace or direction of genetic research, the three Harvard scientists'
criticisms are hard to ignore. "Many biologists are much too keen to dismiss
Hubbard and Lewontin, but their arguments are important and need to be
addressed," says Philip Kitcher, a philosopher and science historian at the
University of California, San Diego.

   Even some genetic enthusiasts acknowledge that the pointed criticisms from
Cambridge force them to clarify their aims and be vigilant about the new
technology's impact. Says Gilbert, the Harvard biologist who often tangles with
the trio on genetic issues: "They are concerned about a number of social issues,
and the misuse of genetic information, that do need to be brought out and which
do require responses."

   Some of their views overlap with concerns voiced by many scientists and lay
people. However, their proposed remedies - scaling down the Human Genome
Project, forgoing genetic research into sensitive areas like intelligence or
violence, transferring funds from genetics to other priorities - often go too
far for the vast majority of scientists, who view the critics as overly
pessimistic in their assessment of the potential of genetic research.

   Eric Lander, a leading geneticist who heads the Whitehead Institute/MIT
Genome Center, in Cambridge, agrees both that genetic discrimination should be
opposed and that scientists "shouldn't overpromise" the potential benefits of
gene research. At the same time, he is confident that sequencing, or decoding
the entire message of the human genome, will have enormous value for revealing
how "normal" genes differ from those that contribute to disease, and that this
will ultimately give scientists a much better shot at curing those diseases.

   Others say that the Harvard critics exaggerate the existence of "genomania"
in society. "I don't share the depth of concern that Lewontin and the others
do," says Dr. Philip Reilly, a physician, lawyer, and executive director of the
Shriver Center for Mental Retardation, in Waltham. Yes, he says, in his
encounters with the public he often finds a superficial understanding of
genetics, which sometimes includes an exaggerated appreciation of the power of
genes. "I do agree there's been a somewhat reductionistic kind of thinking at
work, and it's probably simplistic and wrong," says Reilly. At the same time,
though, "I'm not sure there's any evidence it's done harm. And, I would ask,
weren't we too environmentally oriented 25 years ago?"

   Even Kitcher, who is sympathetic to the Harvard critics' views, ultimately
believes they paint too bleak a picture of where genetic research is leading us.
In his new book, The Lives to Come: The Genetic Revolution and Human
Possibilities, he calls for a balanced view of the power of genes. "Just as we
should resist the notion that our genes are destiny, so too we should oppose the
polar view," he writes. "We are not infinitely plastic, capable of being molded
in any direction by the appropriate environment."

    As for the critics' fears that gene technology will pave the way for new
forms of eugenics, Kitcher confronts that argument by agreeing with it - and
saying that this isn't necessarily bad news. "Once we lose our innocence, we are
committed to some form of eugenics," Kitcher writes. But with care and luck, he
says, it can be the most benign form of eugenics - "utopian genetics," as he
calls it. This means the decisions will be made not by the state but by
individuals seeking to prevent the births of children who would suffer greatly
or be prevented from reaching their potential. "If we can bring into being a
life that is more likely to develop high quality and flourish," he says, "then
that's a morally legitimate stance to take."

   It seems, finally, that the prodding by Lewontin, Hubbard, and Beckwith may
help to create a sense of urgency about the role that genetic technology will
play in medicine and society and what kind of policies should be formulated to
minimize its potentially harmful effects. "There's a deep point about which they
are right," Kitcher says. "Unless we do some serious social thinking, it's going
to be a botch. We've got between five and 10 years to make some headway as a
nation in setting the social fabric to rights, to accept this new technology."

FROM GENE TO PROTEIN

   These are the players in the process by which cells, using the coded
instructions in genes, create proteins, which are the building blocks of the
body.
HUMAN CELL There are 100 trillion cells in the body, each with a distinct role
that is specified by biological instructions in the genes. Each cell carries, in
its nucleus, the same set of genes (the entire set is called the genome), but
different genes are active in different kinds of cells.
CHROMOSOME The genes - 100,000 in each human cell - reside on long, threadlike
structures called chromosomes. Human cells contain 23 pairs of chromosomes.
Chromosomes are made largely of DNA, the spiral-shaped molecule that contains
four different chemical "letters" whose sequence spells out information.
GENE Genes, like chromosomes, are made of DNA and are passed from parents to
their children. Each gene, with its unique sequence of chemical letters, spells
out a single message. That message instructs the cell about how to make a
particular protein.
PROTEIN Proteins form the body's structure and carry out the chemical functions
of life. Correct genetic instructions result in the production of a properly
functioning protein.  However, if a gene is mutant - that is, altered - an
abnormal protein may be produced, or a protein may not be produced at all. This,
in turn, may result in an abnormality or disease.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. Genetic-research critics Richard C. Lewontin and Ruth
Hubbard. / PHOTOGRAPH BY LANE TURNER / THE BOSTON GLOBE 2. Graphic by Sean
McNaughton / The Boston Globe

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1996


                             2807 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                     May 25, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7A-

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: DOW UP 0.74, EASING INTO HOLIDAY

BYLINE: From News Wire Services

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:


   Stocks tip-toed higher Friday as trading slowed before the long holiday
weekend.

   The Dow Jones industrial average rose just 0.74 to 5,762.86, finishing the
week with a gain of 75.36 points.

   Advancing issues led decliners 1,186-1,084 on subdued trading of 329.14
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The average share added 14 cents.

   The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks and the NYSE Composite
index both set new highs, but the Nasdaq Composite index fell 0.85 to 1,247.80.

   The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of NYSE, American
and Nasdaq issues -- was at a new high of 6,758.693 up 20.872 or 0.31 percent.

   U.S. financial markets will be closed Monday for the Memorial Day holiday.

   In economic news, the Commerce Department reported that orders of durable
goods fell 1.9 percent to $ 166 billion in April, the third drop in four months,
as declining aircraft orders offset an increase in cars and trucks.

   "It appears as though the message continues to be that the economy has slowed
in the second quarter and the outlook is for continued slow growth," said Hugh
Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. "The list of stocks
performing well is peopled by defensive issues."

   LSI Logic topped the NYSE actives list and fell 21/8 to 293/4 after brokerage
Robertson Stephens cut its 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates on the company.

   Disk-drive makers Iomega and SyQuest Technologies plunged after a week-long
rally based more on speculation than news. Iomega lost 6 11-16 to 44 9-16, and
SyQuest slid 7 to 107/8.

   Diana Corp. rose 61/4 to 1031/2 after gaining 7 on Thursday. The company
declined comment on its stock activity.

   CAI Wireless jumped 41/8 to 13 after news of its planned high speed wireless
Internet access service.

   Systemix soared 75/8 to 185/8 after Sandoz offered to acquire for $ 17 a
share the 27 percent of the gene therapy development company it does not already
own.

   A couple of initial public offerings attracted strong buying interest. Aspect
Development, a supplier of advanced manufacturing software, soared 14 to 34, and
Cerion Technologies climbed 51/8 to 181/8.

   In bond trading, the Treasury's main 30-year bond closed up 1/4 point, or $
2.50 per $ 1,000 in face value. Its yield fell to 6.83 percent from 6.85 percent
late Thursday.

   Short-term Treasury securities rose 1-32 point and intermediate maturities
rose 1-16 point to 3-16 point, reported Dow Jones Telerate Inc.

   In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded
municipal bonds closed at 114 20-32, up 2-32 from late Thursday. The average
yield to maturity was 5.96 percent, down from 5.97 percent.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996


                             2808 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                   May 25, 1996, Saturday, Southland Edition

SECTION: Business; Part D; Page 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: FINANCIAL MARKETS;
 STOCKS MAKE SMALL GAINS, YIELDS FIRM IN LIGHT TRADING

BYLINE: From Times Wire Services

BODY:


   Stocks tiptoed higher Friday, taking some indexes further into record
territory, as bond yields firmed and trading slowed to a crawl before the long
holiday weekend.

   The Dow Jones industrial average rose just 0.74 point to 5,762.86, finishing
the week with a gain of 75.36. The blue-chip barometer, which set record highs
Monday and Wednesday, was up nearly 37 points at the start of Friday's trading,
then trailed lower.

   Broad-market measures were mostly positive, but the Nasdaq market was weighed
down by the technology sector. Analysts said there was little motivation for new
buying in a pricey market that's already ridden a wave of encouraging economic
reports well into record territory.

   "It's a meaningless day in terms of setting any agenda for where we're
going," said John Cleland, chief investment strategist at Security Benefit Group
in Topeka, Kan. "Everybody's already on vacation and we're taking a break."

   Although the market's advance was modest, it was enough to break some
records. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.51 points to 678.51,
edging Wednesday's record high at 378.42.

   The Nasdaq composite index, which had achieved a record high on Thursday,
fell 0.85 point to 1,247.80 as investors secured some profits on some recent
high fliers. Disk drive makers Iomega and SyQuest Technologies plunged after a
weeklong rally based more on speculation than on news. Iomega lost 6 11/16 to 44
9/16, and SyQuest slid 7 to 10 7/8.

   Among market highlights:

   * LSI Logic fell 2 1/8 to 29 3/4 and topped the NYSE actives list after
brokerage house Robertson Stephens cut its 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates for
the company.

   * CAI Wireless jumped 4 1/8 to 13 on news of its plans for a high-speed
wireless Internet access service.

   * Systemix soared 7 5/8 to 18 5/8. Sandoz offered to acquire, for $ 17 a
share, the 27% of the gene therapy development company it does not already own.

   By 4 p.m. in New York, the dollar was trading at 107.80 yen, up from 106.93
yen on Thursday and the highest level against the Japanese currency since April
18. The dollar also was trading at 1.5420 German marks, down from 1.5425 on
Thursday.

   Market Roundup, D4

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary: May 24, 1996; Dow Jones Industrials; New
York Volume; Interest Rates / Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1996


                             2809 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  May 25, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 33;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
SANDOZ OFFERS TO PURCHASE REMAINING STAKE IN HOLDING

BYLINE: Dow Jones

BODY:

   The Swiss drug company Sandoz A.G. said yesterday that it was offering to buy
the rest of the majority-owned Systemix Inc. for about $70 million, sending
stock of Systemix soaring 69 percent. Sandoz already holds a 71.6 percent stake
in Systemix, which researches gene therapies for cancer, AIDS and genetic
diseases. Sandoz is offering $17 a share for Systemix, which is based in Palo
Alto, Calif. Systemix's shares jumped beyond that price yesterday, gaining
$7.625, to reach $18.625 on the Nasdaq stock market.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1996


                             2810 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Science Desk;  Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: The Chicken With a Duck's Feet: It's All in the Biochemical Signal

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON

BODY:

   AS scientists piece together the complex biochemical origami through which a
blank sheet of undifferentiated cells is folded into a fully developed creature,
they are learning a striking lesson: context is everything. What counts as a
deformity in one organism can be one of evolution's gifts for another.

   Take the case of syndactyly, the webbing of the fingers and toes. What is
seen as a mild deformity in people expands the duck's domain to include the
water as well as the sky.

    How is it that the ends of some creatures' limbs blossom into hands or feet
with well-defined fingers or toes, while others sprout aquatic paddles? In a
report published in the May 3 issue of the journal Science, researchers at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan said they had found an
important part of the answer: a biochemical signal that seems to control whether
or not webbing will occur.

   In an exquisitely clear-cut experiment, Dr. Hongyan Zou and Dr. Lee Niswander
blocked the signal and found that chickens developed duck feet. "The effect is
really quite dramatic," Dr. Niswander said in an interview. In her paper, she
noted that blocking the molecular signal -- bone morphogenetic proteins, or
B.M.P.'s -- produced the deformity in "essentially 100 percent" of the limbs she
experimented with.

   Other laboratories have found that B.M.P.'s are important elsewhere in the
developing body, telling a cluster of cells whether to form a thumb or little
finger and in orchestrating the development of kidneys, eyes and other tissues.
The molecules were originally of interest mostly to biotechnology companies
hoping to cash in on drugs that stimulate bone growth, but they are turning out
to be so ubiquitous in embryonic development that some researchers wish they
could give them a jazzier name.

   "It's really a fascinating group of molecules," said Dr. Brigid Hogan, a
developmental biologist at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Vanderbilt
University. "They are probably important for the development of every organ."

   Last year, Dr. Hogan's lab discovered that if the gene that codes for a
certain type of B.M.P. molecule is deleted from a developing embryo, the
organism will die without forming the middle layer of cells, called the
mesoderm, that gives rise to a variety of tissues, like muscle, kidney,
cartilage and bone. More recently, in work yet to be published, her lab
discovered that knocking out the gene for another kind of B.M.P. keeps mice from
developing sperm.

   Another researcher, Dr. Elizabeth Robertson, a Harvard University biologist,
found that knocking out B.M.P. genes led to eye and kidney deformities as well
as misshapen feet.

   "The question is how does one kind of molecule play all these different
roles?" said Dr. Cheryll Tickle, a professor of developmental biology at
University College in London. She said Dr. Niswander's study would be important
in untangling the various chemical pathways in which B.M.P.'s guide the
transformation of an egg into a newborn. "It could be quite a complicated
balance," she said. In some stages of development, B.M.P.'s are involved in
programmed cell death, the pruning away of unwanted tissue. But they have other
roles as well.

   As if nature's machinery was not already complex enough, researchers have
found that other genes are also involved in limb development. In the April 26
issue of Science, Drs. Yasuteru Muragaki, Stefan Mundlos, Joseph Upton and Bjorn
R. Olsen of Harvard Medical School described how they had traced a human
deformity called synpolydactyly -- webbing accompanied by extra digits -- to a
mutation of a so-called homeobox gene. Homeobox genes were first found to
control development in the fruit fly: a mutation in one such gene can cause
limbs to sprout from the head at the place where antennae should be. Since the
discovery of homeobox genes, corresponding genes have been found throughout the
animal kingdom.

   Dr. Mundlos said his group's research might help answer some puzzling
questions about the very different ways in which limbs can develop. "Why do fish
have fins, while chicken have feet with three digits in front and one in back,
while we have five digits?" he asked. "We believe that the mutation we found
might shed light on that question."

   Homeobox genes produce molecules called transcription factors that turn other
genes on and off. The extra fingers and toes of synpolydactyly seem to arise
when a mutation causes the homeobox gene to insert too many copies of an amino
acid, alanine, into a region of the transcription factor that seems to be
involved with growing digits. Mice -- and people, with their five-digit paws --
have a stretch of 15 alanines in the homeobox protein. Chickens have 9, while
zebra fish have none.

   Dr. Mundlos said it was not yet clear how his group's results on limb
development were related to the recent findings about B.M.P.'s. "All these
molecules are closely related to each other," he said. "We have pretty good
evidence that they all have something to do with very early patterning."

   While homeobox genes produce transcription factors, which work within the
cell nucleus, B.M.P. molecules are used to send signals from cell to cell. A
homeobox signal might tell a gene to make a B.M.P. Or, conversely, a B.M.P.
might cause a cell to instruct its nucleus to turn on a homeobox gene. It is all
part of the complex orchestration of development.

   Dr. Niswander's trick of turning chicken feet into duck feet was inspired by
research in the last five years showing that genes are busy manufacturing B.M.P.
signal molecules in the tissue between the digits, like fingers and toes.
Scientists at several labs established this with a technique called RNA in situ
hybridization. After a gene is turned on, its genetic instructions are copied
into messenger RNA molecules, which ferry the information to the ribosomes
outside the nucleus, where proteins are made. To determine if a gene is active,
one simply has to look for its messenger RNA.

   To carry out the search for active B.M.P. genes, experimenters tailored
strands of RNA so that their chemical bumps and grooves formed a mirror image of
the appropriate messenger RNA molecules for B.M.P.'s. The manufactured RNA was
then given a chemical tag so it could be easily tracked down and identified.
When the scientistsbathed a chick or mouse embryo with the manufactured RNA, it
sought out and latched onto its complementary, or mirror image, mates. The
researchers then used antibodies to the chemical tag to zero in on just where in
the body the RNA molecules were congregating. These were the places where the
B.M.P. gene had been switched on.

   Scientists suspected that in most animals, B.M.P. molecules kept webs from
forming by unleashing programmed cell death. When signaled by the B.M.P.'s, the
cells between the digits commit mass suicide, allowing independent digits to
develop. In ducks, and apparently in people with syndactyly, this does not
happen.

   Dr. Niswander decided to see what would happen if she blocked the cellular
suicide signal. Molecules like B.M.P. deliver their message by binding to a
receptor molecule sticking out from the outer membrane of a cell. When the
B.M.P. binds to the receptor, a cascade of internal chemical reactions begins,
which ultimately tells the nucleus to make the enzymes needed to carry out some
specific task.

   To cut off the B.M.P. signal, Dr. Niswander and her colleagues used a kind of
reverse gene therapy. First, they caused a mutation in the gene that makes
B.M.P. receptors. They inserted the mutated gene into a retrovirus, which
smuggled the altered gene into the cells of chick embryos. The embryos with the
mutated gene produced defective B.M.P. receptors, which were deaf to the suicide
signal. Sure enough, the chicks developed ducklike webs between their toes.

   Then, using the hybridization technique to find out where the B.M.P. genes
were active, the scientists looked at ducks and found that while the genes had
been turned on in other parts of the body, they had not been in the tissues
between the digits.

   The scientists also found that the lack of B.M.P.'s led to another change in
the chicks: they tended to develop feathers on their feet instead of scales.
Scientists believe that during development, certain cells are capable of taking
on different identities. If left alone, they become feathers. If nudged by
B.M.P.'s, they become scales.

   Scientists assume that the signaling system uncovered in chicks is also
active in people. When nature stumbles upon a useful trick, it tends to conserve
it. "Both cellular and molecular signals seem to be very conserved between the
chick and the mouse," Dr. Niswander said. "Presumably, that's true in humans as
well."

   The details of just how programmed cell death shapes the limbs remain
mysterious, said Dr. Matthew P. Scott, a professor of developmental biology and
genetics at Stanford University and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute
investigator. "We now need to know how B.M.P. signals are produced in just the
right places," he said. "But we could not ask that question without Zou and
Niswander's work."

   The implications of the experiment may reach beyond the domain of embryology.
Programmed cell death is also important in the sculpturing of other parts of the
body, including the brain, where a profusion of neurons in the fetus and newborn
is whittled away to leave the neural circuitry. There have been suggestions that
B.M.P. is involved in that process as well.

   But the molecules also play roles that seem to have nothing to do with
cellular suicide. "The interesting thing about B.M.P.'s is that they can do
different things at different stages of embryonic development," said Dr. Hogan
of Vanderbilt. "In some contexts, they promote cell death -- in others, cell
survival, depending on where and when they are expressed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: X-rays of patients who have developed webbing and additional
fingers between middle and ring fingers; mutations in homeobox genes, which turn
other genes on and off, seem to give rise to extra digits. (Courtesy of Dr.
Stefan Mundlos and Dr. Joseph Upton); X-rays of a normal chicken's foot, left,
and one that has developed webbing like a duck's because key chemical signals,
called bone morphogenetic proteins, or B.M.P.'s, were blocked during
development. (Courtesy of Dr. Lee Niswander)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1996


                             2811 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Move to Patent Cancer Gene Is Called Obstacle to Research

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

BODY:

   When Myriad Genetics, a Utah biotechnology company, announced in 1994 that it
had found a gene linked with breast cancer, scientists and women's health groups
alike hailed the discovery as an important breakthrough.

   But now a debate has begun among those women's groups over Myriad's attempt
to patent the gene.

    A coalition of hundreds of women's and cancer advocacy groups is forming to
oppose Myriad's application for a patent on the gene, BRCA1. Jeremy Rifkin, a
longtime opponent of the biotechnology industry who plans to announce the
formation of the coalition today, calls it "the first genetic-rights movement in
history."

   Mr. Rifkin and the groups with whom he is working say that human genes are a
part of nature, not an invention, even though such genes have been patented
before. The coalition also says that, as a practical matter, patenting the
breast cancer gene could impede cancer research.

   "We want to promote as much research as possible," said Nancy Evans, a vice
president of Breast Cancer Action, one of the groups. "If someone patents this
gene, they'll control the research. And they may not always want to encourage
competition for products they're developing. That's not in the public interest,
and it worries us."

   But some leading national cancer advocacy groups are not joining the
coalition. Many biotechnology companies, researchers and bioethicists say the
coalition has it backward: Patent protection, they say, encourages research by
giving investors and researchers financial incentives.

   "If people think new drugs and new cures come out of basic research funded by
the Government, that's a misperception," said Carl Feldbaum, president of the
Biotechnology Industry Organization, the industry trade group. "They don't, and
they won't. All the important new gene therapies are based on genes that had
patent protection. Without that protection, investors won't put up the millions
of dollars for research."

   Wendy McGoodwin, executive director of the Council for Responsible Genetics,
a member of the coalition, said research was not entirely dependent on
investors, and that the Government, which has paid for much of the basic genetic
research, was committed to continuing it.

   "It seems unfair that a private company using the benefit of that research
would patent it, then turn around and charge us more," Ms. McGoodwin said.
"Patents were designed for the better mousetrap, not for bits and pieces of
living beings. And I believe patenting increases the climate of secrecy and
makes researchers less able to discuss their work with each other."

   Myriad plans to offer a BRCA1 screening test for about $900 later this year.
The test will tell women which type of BRCA1 gene they have. Women with a
particular mutation of the gene have an 85 percent chance of developing breast
cancer. Some breast-cancer organizations oppose such testing, saying it is
premature, since it is not yet known what different mutations of the gene mean,
what is the best course of action for women found to have the high-risk gene, or
how to protect the confidentiality of test results.

   Still, Peter D. Meldrum, Myriad's president, said the test was a good example
of how the patent system encouraged research spending.

   "Without the expectation of a patent, we would not have spent the millions of
dollars it took to develop a full-sequence diagnostic test," Mr. Meldrum said.
"If the efforts to halt the patenting of genes is successful, I think the next
generation of medicines will never get out of the laboratories, and that would
be tragic for women with breast cancer and all kinds of other diseases."

   Some leading national breast-cancer advocacy groups agree.

   "Myriad invested an enormous amount of money in this, and without that huge
infusion of capital, it wouldn't have happened so quickly," said Amy Langer,
executive director of the National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations,
which has not joined the coalition.

   Some chapters of national breast-cancer advocacy groups have joined the
coalition, even though their national boards do not endorse it.

   Mr. Rifkin and others in the coalition acknowledge that it may be difficult
to change the policy of a patent office that has already granted gene patents.
But, they say, serious public debate on the issue is overdue.

   "It seems to me that genes are not something that should be patented, any
more than sperm or eggs or body parts can be," said Judy Norsigian, co-director
of the Boston Women's Health Book Collective. "Until recently, none of us knew
that was going on. It was entirely in the domain of the scientific community and
a few bioethicists. The public hasn't had one whit of participation."

   Most of the women's groups in the coalition are new to the patent issue:
Their concerns about biotechnology grew out of the fear that genetic screening
tests would be offered before there was adequate protection of the
confidentiality of test results, or assurance that the results not be used as a
basis for discrimination by insurers or employers. The coalition will address
those concerns, as well as the patent question.

   "The technology has moved so fast, it's raised all kinds of new questions,"
said Jan Platner, executive director of the Massachusetts Breast Cancer
Coalition. "How do we make sure test results aren't used against women? And is
it worth testing, when most breast cancer isn't hereditary, and it's not clear
what you should do if you do have an 85 percent chance of getting it? No one has
been able to convince me that it will do any good for humanity for someone to be
able to patent genes. It's a very scary road we're going down."

   Myriad and other biotechnology companies say they share the concerns about
confidentiality and discrimination. But they say those questions have no
connection with the patent issue. "We can all agree that privacy and
discrimination are very real concerns," Mr. Feldbaum said. "But that's entirely
separate from the patent question. Jeremy Rifkin seems to have linked them in an
unconscionable way, and convinced some people who are not really cognizant of
the issues that they relate to each other."

   Ms. McGoodwin, though, sees a clear relationship: "They're both about making
sure that this new technology is used appropriately, not exploitatively. Jeremy
has been very clever in putting this together and presenting it to the women's
groups."

   Mr. Rifkin, president of the Foundation for Economic Trends in Washington,
has attracted a wide range of people and groups to his coalition, from feminist
icons like Bella Abzug, Gloria Steinem and Betty Friedan to groups in the United
States and abroad concerned with everything from reproductive rights to women's
economic empowerment.

   But women's health groups that oppose the coalition wonder just how much that
breadth signifies.

   "The real issue is to promote research, and the scientific community feels
strongly that the opportunity to patent motivates research," said Phyllis
Greenberger of the Society for the Advancement of Women's Health Research. "This
should be resolved by the scientific community. I'm sure they have good
intentions, but I don't see why Gloria Steinem and Betty Friedan should be
talking about patenting genes."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1996


                             2812 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              May 21, 1996 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Business and UCSD form bold partnership

BYLINE: NEIL MORGAN

BODY:

   Think of UCSD as still youthful and quick, starting an ocean race.

   Its research programs are rigged to change course while the supertankers of
academia plow on toward an empty port.

   With federal funding drying up, UCSD research is boldly partnering with
American industry. Just 35 years ago, Roger Revelle stunned academia by luring
Urey and Brueckner and Arnold and Bonner away from Chicago and Princeton and
Yale to a dusty dream campus with no buildings.

   Such superstars of science lured tens of millions in federal research grants.
Cold War research that emerged from UCSD and Scripps Institution of Oceanography
is finding its role in peace.

   About $240 million in federal research funds came last year to UCSD. Though
that spigot is turning off, UCSD remains among the nation's 10 elite research
campuses, the only one launched in this century. Robert Dynes, a physicist from
Bell Labs who will soon lead UCSD as chancellor, is rocking academia again.

   His colleague Robert Conn, dean of UCSD's School of Engineering, has been in
New York with Irwin Jacobs, president of Qualcomm, one of the UCSD research
partners, briefing media people on the radical UCSD solution for the research
crisis, one that some fear may end America's global economic leadership. The
solution will appall some in ivory towers.

   Through its corporate affiliates program, the UCSD School of Engineering
accepts research funding from 17 corporations including AT&T, Hewlett-Packard,
SAIC, National Semiconductor and Hughes Network Systems. "We want to be doing
things relevant to the quality of life of the nation," Conn says.

   "Research in areas where our interests merge can insure the school's
survival.

   We research technology, not a specific product.

   We determine what's important." Salaries of all 100 engineering professors
are paid by the university. Corporations pay to join and name a member to an
executive board that plans research programs.

   The resulting intellectual property is co-owned by the university and
industry. "Our goal is to educate the best engineers," Conn says.

   "But we recruit faculty in areas we think are going to be of most interest to
business." Fortunately business has a wide agenda: wireless communications;
advanced manufacturing and robotics; multimedia; software and network security;
advanced composites, like those used in building bridges; energy research;
electrical engineering, as in the next generation of computers; and
bioengineering, as in new ways to deliver gene therapy. The UCSD school ranks
high in many of these areas: "No. 1 or No. 2," Conn says, "in bioengineering.

   The school overall is ranked ninth among 200 U.S. schools by the National
Academy of Sciences." Its record already is society-oriented.

   Its Center for Magnetic Recording Research, aided by IBM, helped to lead
toward Qualcomm technology.

   The retrofitting of California bridges against earthquakes had its origins in
research in the earthquake stress lab here. Liaison between academics and
corporate people has been eye-popping.

   A UCSD professor outlines proposed research, and a corporate scientist
suggests how to make it more relevant.

   Academics find their counterparts more businesslike and learn to return calls
and file reports when promised.

   The 2,400 undergraduates in the engineering school watch closely for clues on
leadership and team engineering.

   They'd like jobs when they graduate. "But now the research university is the
only seat of long-term research and long-term knowledge in our nation," Conn
says.

   "America's unique edge in software can help us hold global advantage through
creating new knowledge. We'll need universities to show how to use that
knowledge." NEIL MORGAN'S column appears Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2813 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              May 21, 1996 Tuesday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: SAN DIEGO AND CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

BODY:

   British court backs Callaway Callaway Golf Co. said a court in London ruled
that the Rata & Rata retail chain infringed upon Callaway's golf club designs
and must surrender or destroy its inventory of the offending clubs.

   The court also said Callaway may seek monetary damages and costs of its
lawsuit. Proxima shares up nearly 17% The share price of San Diego-based Proxima
Corp. rose almost 17 percent yesterday, regaining much of the ground lost in
mid-April after the company reported earnings below analysts' estimates.

   Proxima, which makes desktop projectors for computers, introduced two new
products last week. New CEO for Patriot Scientific Patriot Scientific Corp. of
Poway has named Michael A. Carenzo president and chief executive officer,
effective June 1. Carenzo was an executive consultant with the Coors Ceramics
division of ACX Technologies.

   Patriot's founder and chief executive, Elwood G. Norris, moves to chairman.

   The firm is developing technology for ground-penetrating radar. Cohen new
Synbiotics CEO Synbiotics Corp. named Kenneth M. Cohen chief executive and
director.

   He succeeds Robert L. Widerkehr, who will remain as president, chief
operating officer and director and will focus on the day-to-day operations of
the firm's animal health business.

   Cohen was most recently chief operating officer for Canji Inc. a San
Diego-based gene therapy company acquired in February by Schering-Plough Corp.
Dissident to join board PS Group, a diversified airplane leasing company,
resolved a proxy contest and put former dissident shareholder Joseph Pirinea on
its board.

   Pirinea said he would drop opposition to a reorganization plan, which calls
for a new holding company. Anacomp revamp is approved Anacomp Inc.'s
reorganization plan was cleared by U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware.

   The company said it expects to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy within two
weeks with a new board of directors.

   Later, it plans to list newly issued stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market and
exchange its old stock for warrants to buy new stock.

   Anacomp, which makes data management products, has a plant in San Diego.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2814 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              May 20, 1996 Monday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Medical `breakthroughs' that aren't

BYLINE: Gina Lubrano, READERS REPRESENTATIVE

BODY:

   For an allergy sufferer, a story last Wednesday provided hope that perhaps,
one day, a vaccine applied through a simple skin scratch would stop "for months,
even years" sniffles, sneezing, watery eyes, wheezing and other symptoms
associated with allergies and asthma. As I muffled a sneeze, I thought of Art
Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania,
who criticized "breakthrough" stories during a recent international gathering of
news ombudsmen in Philadelphia. Caplan, whose criticism was aimed at a story on
a potential treatment for deadly brain tumors, writes a column that occasionally
appears in the Union-Tribune. The story on gene therapy for brain cancer
appeared April 2 and contained a "number of things that drove me bonkers,"
Caplan said.

   Waving an Associated Press version of the story, he said it was unchallenged,
gave false hope and failed to outline the financial fallout for those involved.
Both the AP and Union-Tribune versions of the cancer story cited as a source a
survey published that day in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   So did staff-written articles in The Boston Globe and Los Angeles Times.

   The New York Times and The Kansas City Star carried the AP story, while the
Sacramento Bee credited its own news services. Caplan insists reference to the
journal -- also the source for the allergy story -- should have raised a red
flag because of its lack of peer review. Although the journal's managing editor
called Caplan's claim a myth, the bioethicist said the publication does not use
the same standards as other scientific journals. Reviews may be done by academy
members or scientists known by members, not by independent outsiders who do not
know the identity of the researchers. That does not invalidate the study, but
should make reporters a "little more wary," Caplan said. He said Dr. Habib
Fakhrai, a researcher in the gene therapy study, "could be a fine fellow," but
questioned whether there was other support of the theory behind the study on 12
rats.

   Fakhrai, a UCLA molecular biologist, was with the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center
in La Jolla until last year.

   He was quoted in both the AP and Union-Tribune stories. "I have lots of
theories that I wish would get the same (unchallenged) treatment," Caplan said.
The Union-Tribune story was based solely on interviews with those involved in
the research and on the strength of the science-journal publication. Both the
cancer and allergy stories are tied to the San Diego biomedical industry, which
Caplan described as a "gigantic sector of the economy"; both stories were about
treatments successfully tested on animals but not on humans; and both said human
testing is coming (as early as summer for the cancer therapy and in 1997 for the
allergy vaccine). The cancer story appeared on the front page; the allergy story
appeared on the cover of the local section. Caplan said stories such as the one
on brain cancer give false hope because people suffering from deadly diseases
and their loved ones overlook the unproved aspects of the studies and then blame
the Food and Drug Administration for "withholding" a treatment they hope could
provide a cure. Although both stories stopped short of calling results of the
studies "breakthroughs," the implication was there.

   The cancer story quoted Fakhrai as saying he believed "we have taken a big
first step toward finding new approaches to gene therapy for cancer."

   The allergy story also quoted a study author.

   He said: "This is not just an idea, this is something that has worked in
animals." Only near the end of the cancer story was it acknowledged that it is
unclear how the therapy will work in people, and that it could be years before
it is accepted as standard therapy. Where the disclaimer appeared validates
Caplan's notion that the story may have given false hope. The disclaimer was
more prominent in the allergy story.

   The seventh paragraph said: "Even if the method proves totally effective and
safe, it is not expected to be available to the public for at least five years."
John Cannon, who edits stories on medicine and science, defended the
Union-Tribune cancer story and its position on Page One. It carried the smallest
headline on the page and appeared below the fold. "I'm conscious of the concern
that we shouldn't trumpet things as breakthroughs to give people false hope,"
Cannon said.

   "That's the last thing I want to do." Yet, he said, he believed the story
deserved front-page treatment because of the potential for testing on humans and
because of the 100 percent success rate on the 12 mice whose cancer had been
eradicated. Cannon said he believed there were cautions in the story -- that it
was a very small study involving animals and that more work was needed. Caplan
said he thought it might have been more prudent to report the research after a
study had been conducted on 12 more rats, maybe even 100. As Caplan said, there
was no mention in the story about the financial implications.

   But the next day, a Union-Tribune Business section story said stock of Immune
Response Corp., the Carlsbad company that had acquired the experimental vaccine,
"zoomed up 67 percent in heavy trading . . .

   " And it is not yet known whether the therapy will succeed with humans. The
financial aspect may not be science, but Caplan is right.

   There should have been some mention of it in the original story. o o o [] []
[] Gina Lubrano's column commenting on the media appears Mondays.

   It is the policy of The San Diego Union-Tribune to correct all errors.

   To discuss accuracy or fairness in the news, please write Gina Lubrano,
readers representative, Box 191, San Diego, CA 92112-4106, or telephone
293-1525. Send e-mail to: readers.rep@uniontrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2815 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                              May 19, 1996, Sunday

SECTION: HIGH PROFILE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: MOTHER, SON SEEK CURE FOR CF BY TAKING A LONG WALK IN PARK

BYLINE: CATHERINE G. BARNARD, Democrat-Gazette Feature Writer

BODY:



   Jamie Winbury and her fourth-grade son, Mitchell Comeaux, are taking one step
at a time to help find a cure for cystic fibrosis. They're lacing up their
walking shoes to join the crowd today down at Murray Park for the "Cystic
Fibrosis Great Strides Walk-a-thon." They never miss the annual event.

   Since Mitchell's diagnosis of CF at the age of 10 months, Winbury has spent
much of her time supporting the CF Foundation, whose persistent research efforts
have brought about improved treatments and progress toward finding a cure.

   "By walking, we are one step closer to a cure for this thing," says Winbury.
"It's an everyday thing for Mitchell, and we do all we can to help raise money
for research."

   The Blytheville native, 38, has put much time and effort into finding
sponsors and walkers through friends and co-workers at the Friday Eldredge &
Clark law firm where she is a legal secretary. She has raised well over the
Great Strides goal of $ 150 per walker, and last year she succeeded in bringing
in more than $ 1,000 in sponsorships.

   "The Friday firm has been really supportive," says Winbury. "They really care
about family and are extremely helpful. Everyone is always good about sponsoring
me in the walk."

   Cystic fibrosis is the number one genetic killer of children and young adults
in the United States. But research efforts have isolated the defective gene that
causes the body to produce an abnormally thick mucus leading to impaired
digestion and chronic, fatal lung infections. And gene therapy treatments are
giving CF victims hope.

   There are some 30,000 cases in the United States and about 1,000 new
diagnoses each year. The average survival of CF patients is 29 years, and daily
treatments are extremely costly. The Winbury's medical bills for Mitchell run
well over $ 2,000 a month.

   "We're really lucky that we have insurance," says Winbury. "I just don't see
how someone could afford the treatments without it."

   Prospects for CF patients may seem dim, but the spirits of Winbury and her
son are bright. Finding a cure is the inspiration keeping them involved in the
fund-raising efforts of the organization. Great Strides, the single largest
national event for the Bethesda, Md.-based foundation, generates $ 5.5 million
dollars each year. Local organizers hope to beat their fund-raising goal this
year of $ 37,000.

   Registration forms may be picked up this morning at any of Megamarket's five
Central Arkansas locations. On-site registration at Murray Park will begin at 1
p.m. today at pavilion No. 3. At 2 p.m., participants will walk the 10K course
along the river next to Rebsamen golf course and back. Prizes like a 35mm
camera, a portable CD player, a color television and two round-trip tickets on
American Airlines provide added incentive to keep up the pace to raise money.

   Winbury became involved with the local foundation when she learned of her
son's diagnosis.

   "I had no idea what it was," says Winbury, "so I flipped open the phone book
and found the local Cystic Fibrosis Foundation number and started there.  They
were very helpful and gave me the support I needed to understand what we were
dealing with."

   She learned that for a child to have CF, both parents must carry the gene.
Neither she nor her then husband knew they were carriers, and still have not
learned of a case in their family history.

   Mitchell, a student at East End Elementary, fortunately has a mild case.  "He
stays real active," says his mom. "He's always running and playing sports. His
favorites are baseball, basketball and football. I just have to make sure he
stays hydrated and give him lots of salty snacks," she says, noting a symptom of
CF is abnormally high levels of salt loss. "Taking care of him is really a
family thing." Her husband and his brothers have rotated giving him treatments,
and now he's getting to the age where he can do the treatments himself.

   Mitchell has enjoyed the perks of being active in the local CF Foundation,
his mom says. When Jerry Jones was honorary parade chairman for the Downtown
Little Rock Christmas Parade, Mitchell and his family got to flip the switch to
the state Capitol lights and meet the Dallas Cowboys' owner. At today's Great
Strides, Mitchell will start the official walk.

   "CF is something that nobody seems to know about," says Winbury. "I think a
lot of parents are in denial. A lot of people are carriers of the gene and don't
even know it. You don't really think about supporting an organization until it
hits home."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1996


                             2816 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      May 17, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 11E

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Nine years of winners: Where are they now?

BODY:

   They are doctors and lawyers. They are actresses and rock singers,
research scientists and business consultants and journalists.
One is entertaining in Italy. One is teaching in Zimbabwe.

   They are the 179 people who, as high school students, earned places
on the first nine All-USA Academic First Teams. Their total is
179 because Alex Heneveld, then at Jenkins High in Savannah, Ga.,
made the First Team twice, in 1993 and 1994.


   Heneveld is now a college student, as are more than half of the
former First Team members. Here, and on the following pages, are
reports on where they are and what they're doing.

   1987

   ALISON BEGLEITER

   Half Hollow Hills

   High East

   Dix Hills, N.Y.

   ALISON BEGLEITER:

   Then: Research demonstrated for first time involuntary magnetic
movement in invertebrates; awards in science, math, literary writing,
French, history, music (piano, violin); editor in chief, school
newspaper; organized Just Say No clubs in elementary schools;
varsity track, debate.

   Later: Degree from Yale in biology, 1992; editor of Yale scientific
magazine; published research on color processing in human visual
cortex; chair, Yale Student Friends of Israel; entered Yale School
of Medicine; student editor, Yale Journal of Biology & Medicine.

   Now: Graduates May 27 with M.D. from Yale medical school; will
become resident in neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital.

   First Team aftermath: "It provided recognition for work and accomplishments
that would have gone without notice. The nicest thing is that
it is an all-inclusive award, not given for a specific accomplishment
but to honor the whole person."

   Advice to students: "Do the things that are most important to
you, the things that will make you whole. Be well-rounded and
do not narrow your focus too early in life."

   1987

   BRIAN HOOKER

   Benjamin Mays High

   Atlanta

   BRIAN HOOKER:

   -- Then: Devised method of measuring carbon monoxide by determining
iodine levels; awards in math, Spanish, physics, chemistry, economics;
research at Argonne National Laboratory, Chicago; volunteer with
Boys Club, American Heart Assn.; NAACP Youth Council; plays trumpet,
baritone; varsity soccer.

   -- Later: Stanford degree in electrical engineering with concentration
in computer architecture; became expert on college financial aid
process, testifying before Congress for U.S. Student Association;
worked three years as project manager in information technology,
Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games.

   -- Now: Consultant with multimedia group at IBM, Atlanta.

   -- First Team aftermath: "The award is still hanging on the
hallowed halls (of Mays High). When I go back, it makes that award
human for the kids there now. It makes them want to reach for
it. . . . My award caused AT&T Bell Labs to resurrect my scholarship
application and give me a scholarship, which paid for my four
years at Stanford."

   -- Advice to students: "Be good at everything but be the best
at something. Pursue something -- science, music, whatever --
with enough vigor and enthusiasm to gain recognition for it. Be
a jack of all trades and master of one."


   THE TEAM

   -- Alison Begleiter, Half Hollow Hills East High, Dix Hills,
N.Y.; biology degree, Yale; earns M.D. from Yale, this month;
published research on electrophysiological studies of color in
human visual cortex. (See profile this page.)

   -- Christine Burrows, Villa Walsh Academy, Morristown, N.J.;
neuroscience degree magna cum laude, Duke; study at Oxford; in
medical school, U. of Virginia.

   -- Louise Chang, U. of Chicago Laboratory High; biochemistry
degree, Harvard; award for best senior thesis in biochemistry;
in medical school, U. of California-San Francisco.

   -- Teresa Chen, Shaker High, Latham, N.Y.; earned M.D. in six-year
program from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Albany Medical
College; internship at Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston;
now ophthalmology resident, U. of Illinois-Chicago.

   -- David Cohen, South Kingstown High, Wakefield, R.I.; math degree,
1991, Yale; master's in applied math,Stanford, 1994; now doing
research on strategic bond valuations for New York City investment
bank.

   -- Gretchen Cowman, Killian High, Miami, Fla.; chemical engineering
degree, Washington U., St. Louis; master's in public health, U.
of North Carolina-Chapel Hill; worked as VISTA volunteer for Habitat
for Humanity; now Peace Corps teacher in Zimbabwe.

   -- Zayd Eldadah, Rockville (Md.) High; biology degree, U. of
Maryland; earned M.D., Ph.D., Johns Hopkins; 17 research publications
in neurophysiology, genetics; now cardiology intern.

   -- Laura Hengehold, Archbishop Alter High, Kettering, Ohio; philosophy
degree, U. of Dayton; two articles published; now graduate student
in philosophy at Loyola U. of Chicago.

   -- Stephen Hise, Central High, Davenport, Iowa; electrical engineering
and music degrees, U. of Michigan; now graduate student working
on MFA in Composition/New Media at California Institute of the
Arts, School of Music, and works as free-lance computer programmer.

   -- Brian Hooker, Benjamin Mays High, Atlanta; electrical engineering
degree, Stanford; now consultant in interactive media with IBM,
Atlanta. (See profile this page.)

   -- Derek Lundberg, South High, Downers Grove, Ill.; biology degree,
U. of Chicago; now in M.D.- Ph.D. program at University of Rochester,
N.Y., working on the possibility of gene therapy to treat Parkinson's
disease; tutors first and second year medical students; married
in 1991; enjoys vegetable gardening.

   -- Yu-Shen Ng, Palos Verdes (Calif.) High; electrical engineering
degree, Stanford; programmer with Silicon Valley software company.

   -- Edward Pallesen, Southeast High, Lincoln, Neb.; government
degree summa cum laude, Harvard; D.Phil. in international relations,
Oxford; now at Harvard law school; editor, Harvard Law Review.

   -- Stephen Racunas, Valley High, New Kensington, Pa.; physics
and electrical engineering degrees, Carnegie-Mellon U.*

   -- Katherine Shaver, Shadow Mountain High, Phoenix; political
science degree, Princeton; Washington correspondent, States News
Service; now investigative reporter for the St. Petersburg (Fla.)
Times.

   -- Christine (Stoffel) Sharis, Bettendorf (Iowa) High; biology
degree, Harvard; M.D., Vanderbilt U.; intern, Massachusetts General
Hospital; starts residency in radiation oncology July 1.

   -- Muneesh Tewari, Cass Technical High, Detroit; biochemistry
degree, Case Western Reserve U., Cleveland; All-USA College First
Team, 1990; Ph.D., U. of Michigan, 1995; in third year, U. of
Michigan Medical School.

   -- Frank Tota, Patrick Henry High, Roanoke, Va.; English degree,
Harvard; master's in creative writing, Hollins College, Roanoke;
taught mountain climbing in Alaska; fellowship in Papua New Guinea
and Fiji; started a Wall Street investment firm and retired this
year; now starting L.A. film production company.

   -- Jody White, Melbourne (Fla.) High; physics degree, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 1991; currently a graduate student at
Cal Tech in theoretical nuclear physics; plays ice hockey in the
winter and races bikes during the summer.

   -- Kathryn Wooten, Strom Thurmond High, Johnston, S.C.; English
degree, Furman University, Greenville, S.C.; worked for a year
at a homeless shelter; married in 1992; pursuing Ph.D. in English
with medieval studies emphasis at Indiana U.

   * indicates team members who could not be contacted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color; PHOTO, Color, Gerry Gropp; PHOTO, Color, Joe Stewardson;
PHOTOS, Color, Michael Schwarz, USA TODAY(3); Science savvy: Alison Begleiter,
who was winning science awards back in high school, will graduate this spring
from Yale medical school and start a neurology residency at Massachusetts
General Hospital. Interfacing: Computer consultant Brian Hooker showed a
scientific bent in high school, later earned an electrical engineering degree.
Involved: Above, Hooker works on a multimedia presentation. In the photo at
left, Hooker and fellow former All-Star Derek Walker look over the work of
students Erika Minor, left, and Cangela Brown at their alma mater, Benjamin Mays
High in Atlanta.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996


                             2817 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                      May 17, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 15E

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: 1992 THE TEAM

BODY:

   1992

   KATHRYN INGRAM

   Cedar Creek School

   Ruston, La.

   KATHRYN INGRAM

   -- Then: Research at Louisiana Tech finds that low levels of
radiation improve germination and yield of bush-bean seeds; award-winning
pianist, writer; campaign volunteer for George Bush, local Democratic
candidates; organized drive to preserve historic neighborhoods;
volunteer pianist at nursing home, guide at museum.

   -- Later: Headed Sewanee Conference on Women, speakers conference
at University of the South (Sewanee, Tenn.) that brings successful
women to campus; co-chair, student discipline committee; published
poetry in literary magazine.

   -- Now: Graduated last week from University of the South with
degree in philosophy, minor in music; will work for a year in
Boston before heading to law school.


   -- First Team aftermath: "During high school, people told me
I couldn't do things I thought I could do. Making the First Team
convinced me I was right. Returning to speak to the 1995 First
Team, and having my speech well-accepted, renewed my self-confidence
after three hard years in college."

   -- Advice to students: "Find something you love and work hard
toward it. Don't judge yourself in relation to others or to winning
awards. Set your own goals for excellence and you'll far exceed
everyone else's."

   1992

   JAMIE WELLS

   William Penn Charter School

   Philadelphia

   JAMIE WELLS

   -- Then: Research on gene therapy in mammary cells; founded an
adopt-a-grandparent program at nursing homes; produced comic book
with original drawings on the Persian Gulf war; organized peer
tutoring program; president, debate society; volunteer at homeless
shelter.

   -- Later: Enrolled at Yale; organized mentor programs, job panels
for Yale Science & Engineering Assn.; researcher, Yale Peabody
Museum; volunteer for inner-city New Haven drug-abuse program,
hospital emergency room, nursing home; English tutor.

   -- Now: Graduates from Yale May 27 with major in American studies,
concentration on media and film; thesis on "Ebola: the Making
of an Epidemic"; president, Yale Science & Engineering Assn.;
heading to medical school.

   -- First Team aftermath: "When I was a little girl, my parents
and I would marvel at the accomplishments of the All-USA First
Team. I would dream of being in their company. The award inspired
me as a child. Attaining it as an adult made me realize that anything
is possible."

   -- Advice to students: "No one can stand in the way of making
your dreams a reality. If you want something enough, are willing
to work hard and maintain a high ethical standard even under the
most volatile conditions, you will achieve success."

   THE TEAM

   -- Adam Abramson, Massapequa (N.Y.) High; Harvard senior, pre-med
curriculum concentrating in neurobiology.

   -- Patricia Bachiller, Scotch Plains-Fanwood High, Scotch Plains,
N.J.; Princeton senior, chemistry major; biochemical research,
Merck & Co.

   -- Erik Bauer, Niles West High, Skokie, Ill.; Harvard senior,
biochemistry major; plans to go to medical school.

   -- Adam Breon, Henry Gunn High, Palo Alto, Calif.; Princeton
senior, physics major pursuing Ph.D.; has worked on experiments
at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.

   -- Michael Capiro, Killian High, Miami, Fla.; U. of Miami senior,
psychobiology major; gastroenterology research.

   -- Edison Chiu, Bellaire (Texas) High; Stanford senior, majoring
in economics and biology.

   -- Bert Huang, Bellaire (Texas) High; Harvard senior, economics
major; president, Harvard's Institute of Politics; White House
intern; 1996 All-USA College Academic First Team.

   -- Kathryn Ingram, Cedar Creek School, Ruston, La.; philosophy
degree, U. of the South, May 1996; organizer, Sewanee Conference
on Women. (See profile this page.)

   -- Peter Khalifah, Shawnee Mission (Kan.) South High; Duke senior,
chemistry major; on Duke scholarship.

   -- Anna Kim, Alhambra (Calif.) High; Harvard senior; applying
to medical school this summer.

   -- Peter Lee, North Augusta (S.C.) High; MIT senior, mechanical
engineering major; internship at Los Alamos National Laboratory.

   -- Susan Lee, Thomas Jefferson High, Alexandria, Va.; Harvard
senior; founder and president, Harvard Project for Asian &
International Relations; worked at Salomon Brothers, New York.

   -- Ashley Lowe, South Dade High, Homestead, Fla.; senior, U.
of North Carolina-Chapel Hill; graduate, National Outdoor Leadership
School; intern, Kansas City, Mo., Police Department.

   -- Anshul Patel, Roslyn High, Roslyn Heights, N.Y.; Harvard senior,
biochemistry major; Ford research fellowship.

   -- Richard Radke, Rufus King High, Milwaukee; Rice senior, applied
math major; developed computer simulation of clinical behavior
of HIV infection.

   -- David Reich, Georgetown Day School, Washington, D.C.; Harvard
senior, physics major; particle physics research at Fermilab in
Chicago.

   -- Cara Reichel, West Rome High, Rome, Ga.; Princeton senior,
anthropology major, with minors in creative writing, theater and
dance; plans to pursue career in publishing or theater.

   -- Jamie Wells, William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia; Yale
senior, majoring in American studies with concentration on media
and film; research on Ebola virus. (See profile this page.)

   -- Dona Wu, Coconino High, Flagstaff, Ariz.; Harvard senior,
getting master's in Latin and a degree in biology; plans to go
to medical school.

   -- Ali Zarrinpar, Beverly Hills (Calif.) High; Harvard senior,
chemistry major; Scripps Research Institute internship.

   Student's encouraging words

   Past First Teamers give much credit to their parents. Here are
some thoughts on parents from the Class of 1992:

   Parents' first goal should be encouraging children to do their
best at the things that interest them. You can't plan to have
your

   child win a national award. -- Patricia Bachiller, Scotch Plains,
N.J.

   I've seen parents put too much pressure on their kids to succeed
and the kids end up socially awkward and unhappy. Sit back.

   Let the kid work. -- Richard Radke, Milwaukee

   My parents made learning a part of everyday life. Learning is
second nature to me. -- Kathryn Ingram, Ruston, La.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Margaret Croft; PHOTO, B/W, Michael Schwarz; PHOTO, B/W,
Eileen Blass, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, Stan Godlewski; Law school awaits: Kathryn
Ingram, an award-winning pianist in high school, graduated from college with a
philosophy degree and a minor in music. She plans to work a year and return to
academia as a law student. Caring: Founder of an adopt-a-grandparent program,
Jamie Wells shared a laugh with Anna Cooper back in 1992 at a geriatric center.
After graduation this spring from Yale, where she volunteers as a tour guide for
visiting groups, she's heading to medical school.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996


                             2818 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                             May 16, 1996 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: TEAM ATTACKS DEADLY TUMORS BY LIFTING BLOOD-BRAIN BARRIER

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Thursday, May 16, 1996 TEAM ATTACKS DEADLY TUMORS BY LIFTING BLOOD-BRAIN
BARRIER

   Summary: A result of OHSU research scores against a cancer without  relying
on radiation, which often diminishes mental capacity

   A deadly type of brain tumor can be cured without damaging patients' mental
abilities, a Portland team has found.

   The report is the first of a cure of a primary tumor -- one that arises and
is localized in the brain -- without radiation.

   The work on the relatively rare cancer, known as non-AIDS central nervous
system lymphoma, may open the way for treating more common brain tumors that
cannot be totally removed by surgery.

   A report on the procedure by an Oregon Health Sciences University team
headed by Dr. Edward A. Neuwelt appears in the May issue of The Cancer  Journal,
a publication of Scientific American.

   Normally, doctors attack such brain tumors with intravenous chemotherapy  and
radiation. However, conventional chemotherapy cannot get enough medicine  across
the blood-brain barrier, the brain's natural defense system. So most  centers
back up medicine with radiation, which can harm healthy brain cells  and cause
dementia and lack of coordination.

   Neuwelt's group has worked for two decades to perfect a method that opens
the blood-brain barrier long enough to get therapeutic drugs into the brain.
The method usually involves a number of monthly treatments during a year which a
sugar solution is injected into blood vessels supplying the brain. The sugar
causes cells lining the blood vessels to shrink and pull apart for as long as
30 minutes, allowing the medicine to be to the tumor cells.

   ``The thing that is exciting about this is you can get a complete and
durable response for a long time without any of the intellectual losses that
are generally seen after radio therapy,'' Neuwelt said. He is a professor of
neurology and neurosurgery at OHSU and the Portland Veterans Affairs Medical
Center.

   The method is being used at four other U.S. hospitals. Neuwelt has taken  the
next step and is using it for other malignant brain cancers. And the team  is in
the early stages of studying the method for gene therapy for other  degenerative
diseases.

   The OHSU team's work is provocative, said Dr. Eli Glatstein, a radiation
oncologist and former director of radio therapy at the National Cancer
Institute.

   ``I think it is one of the most interesting things going on in cancer
treatment right now,'' said Glatstein, who is at the University of
Pennsylvania.

   ``The results are certainly better than anything I have been able to  achieve
in most patients, and the big difference seems to be the way the drugs are
given,'' Glatstein said.

   He speculated that other centers have been slow to adopt the OHSU team's
techniques because breaching the blood-brain barrier is difficult and requires
specially trained staff.

   ``It's easier to do the standard, even though it probably isn't as good,''
Glatstein said.

   Non-AIDS primary central nervous system lymphomas grow rapidly. Without
treatment, a person can be die within three months after diagnosis. The median
survival rate of patients who have conventional chemotherapy and radiation is
41 months, but many patients suffer dementia or lack of coordination from the
radiation.

   In contrast, the OHSU teams' longest lived patient has survived 15 years.  If
he lymphomas recur in the team's patients, it is usually in the first two
yearsrarely within the first five years, Neuwelt said.

   - Measuring success

   Patients' ability to carry on with their work and other responsibilities is a
measure of the therapy's success in maintaining cognitive abilities. The  OHSU
blood-brain barrier patients include:

   *James R. Princehouse, 51, of La Grande who was treated 13 years ago. An
unrelated hip injury kept him from his job for a few months, but he soon
returned to work driving a tractor-trailer rig.

   *Dr. Glen Bair,  48, an orthopedic surgeon in Phoenix, Ariz., was diagnosed
in 1991 and referred to OHSU. He took only three weeks off from his practice  to
have treatment and continues to practice medicine full-time.

   *Judith Hoffman, 51, of Plano, Texas. She is a nurse in a physician's  office
and had four months of conventional chemotherapy before it stopped  working. She
went to OHSU in April 1992, and her therapy continued until May  1993. She
continues to work as a nurse.

   *Kathy Foster, 38, a home health nurse from Klamath Falls who had
blood-barrier treatments at OHSU once a month from September 1994 until
September 1995. She continued to work off and on during that time. She now has
an administrative nursing job and does some patient care.

   Most of the team's patients are referred from other centers around the
country, and one patient referred himself on learning of the treatment on the
Internet.

   The treatment is being expanded to four other cooperative groups in the
nation, and a program will be set up next month in Israel, Neuwelt said.

   The U.S. programs are at the University of Oklahoma, Oklahoma City;
University of Missouri, Kansas City; University of Minnesota, Minneapolis; and
Ohio State Univesity in Columbus.

   The OHSU findings suggest that patients do better if they have chemotherapy
by blood-brain barrier delivery alone, without radiation.

   The OHSU team reported on 58 consecutive patients referred during a 10-year
period. Of those, 39 patients had a biopsy and no radiation, and 19 are alive.
In a second group of 19 patients who had radiation, two patients are alive,  and
only one is functioning cognitively.

   Members of the OHSU team include the late Suellen A. Dahlborg, first author
of the paper; Dr. W. David Henner; John R. Crossen; Mara Tableman; Annie
Petrillo; Dr. Rita Braziel; and Neuwelt, the senior author.

   ILLUSTRATION: Color photo by Molly O'Hara

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2819 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                      May 12, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: VIEWPOINTS, Pg. 8F

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: CANCER VACCINES BEING DEVELOPED WITH NEW TOOLS;
VACCINATION AGAINST BREAST CANCER;
SEEN AS POSSIBLE IN 10 TO 50 YEARS

BYLINE: SUSAN FITZGERALD; Knight-Ridder

BODY:


   PHILADELPHIA -- As soon as Mary Prolejko's cancerous tumor was removed in
surgery, her daughters rushed it to a hospital 30 miles away.

   At Thomas Jefferson University, a laboratory technician processed the
melanoma tumor and divided the cells into vials for freezing.

   Several weeks later, Prolejko, 73, was given a shot containing about 71/2
million of the tumor cells, which had been specially prepared so they could no
longer reproduce.

   The hope was that the very cells that caused her cancer might now keep it
from coming back.

   Vaccines like the one being tested on Prolejko could turn out to be a whole
new arsenal against cancer.

   While the idea of cancer vaccines has been around for 100 years, a proven
vaccine has never been developed. Now, with a better understanding of the
complexities of the body's immune system, coupled with the new tools of
molecular biology and genetic engineering, scientists are convinced they will at
last get vaccines to work.

   Dozens of vaccines against a variety of tumors are under development in the
laboratory, and some are in early testing in patients with advanced disease. A
lot of work is going on in Philadelphia.

   A prostate cancer vaccine, for instance, is being tested on six persons at
Lankenau Hospital in Philadelphia. A vaccine for cancer of the colon and rectum,
developed at the Wistar Institute, will be tested on 48 patients at Jefferson
University. A study of a vaccine for a type of lymphoma is beginning at the
University of Pennsylvania.

   A large national study of a cancer vaccine is scheduled to begin this summer
involving about 800 people with melanoma, a form of skin cancer that is readily
cured if found early, but is usually deadly if it has spread into the body.

   "This is an exciting time," said Jill O'Donnell-Tormey, executive director of
the Cancer Research Institute, a New York organization that funds cancer vaccine
research. "We're certainly further along than we have been for a long time."

   Unlike traditional vaccines, such as those for mumps and measles, that keep
disease from occurring in the first place, cancer vaccines are intended for
people who already have cancer and have had surgery or other standard treatment.

   The vaccines work by training the body's immune system to scout out and kill
any remaining rebel cells and to stand watch against recurring tumor growth.

   "If you could add another weapon to the weapons we already have (against
cancer), we might end up with better therapy," said Dr. Mario Sznol, who
oversees cancer vaccine development at the National Cancer Institute.

   Researchers believe that vaccines, which target cancer cells, could someday
be used instead of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for some cancers.

   "The appeal is that vaccines generally are not toxic, whereas chemotherapy
often is," said Dorothee Herlyn, a Wistar scientist. She has developed two
approaches for colorectal cancer vaccines, including one being tested at
Jefferson by Dr. Edith Mitchell.

   Because chemotherapy kills many healthy cells along with cancerous ones, it
may cause unpleasant side effects such as hair loss and nausea.

   The notion of devising a vaccine against cancer dates to the 1890s, when New
York surgeon William Coley was trying to figure out why tumors were disappearing
in some cancer patients who also had a bacterial infection. He surmised that
whatever was fighting the infection was also going after the cancer. To test the
theory, he injected cancer patients with bacterial toxins, a practice that
continued into the 1930s with some reported success.

   In today's experiments, researchers at hospital laboratories and
biotechnology companies are mixing various ingredients to figure out what works
best to rev up the immune system and outsmart tumors.

   Unlike a virus or bacteria that the body easily recognizes as a foreign
invader, cancer cells are not all that different from normal ones and thus can
escape the body's usual defenses. The immune system must be taught to recognize
cancer cells as the enemy.

   The vaccine works by sending a loud message to the immune system that it
should take notice of cells with similar characteristics and mount a defense.
That defense includes the body's armament of white blood cells known as T cells,
as well as antibodies.

   Some researchers, like the ones at Jefferson who worked with Prolejko's
cancer, use whole tumors from patients to tailor-make individualized vaccines.
Others are concocting vaccines from bits and pieces of protein or carbohydrate
found on the surface of tumor cells. The vaccines are typically bolstered with
substances that are known to beef up the immune response.

   Some of the newest entries into the field are DNA vaccines. Penn researcher
David Weiner has come up with a way to inject genetic material for a particular
tumor protein directly into muscle, setting into motion a powerful immune
response. Some of the most promising work focuses on melanoma. Scientists have a
particular interest in the disease because its incidence is growing at a steady
rate, with more than 38,000 cases expected to be diagnosed this year.

   Earlier this month, Habib Fakhrai, a gene therapist at the University of
California, Los Angeles, and a team of researchers reported dramatic results
with a vaccine against a deadly type of brain cancer. The vaccine was so
effective that even when the rats were injected with a massive dose of cancerous
cells, they did not develop new tumors.

   Fakhrai believes certain tumors are particularly sneaky because they secrete
a substance called tumor growth factor beta that acts like a shield to hide them
from the body's immune defenses. Fakhrai's vaccine is designed to break down the
shield.

   Herlyn, of the Wistar Institute, says that while the vaccines being developed
today are not designed to prevent cancer, she envisions the day when vaccines
could be used for people who have a genetic predisposition for a certain type of
cancer.

   "Maybe 10, 20, 50 years from now one may vaccinate people against breast
cancer," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1996


                             2820 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                              May 10, 1996, Friday

SECTION: Pg. 3, Part B

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Expert says gene therapy not reality Don Finley Express-News Medical
Writer


BODY: The ability to tinker with faulty genes responsible for human disease is a
long way from reality, despite a number of high-profile experiments, one expert
says.

   Still, medicine has made considerable progress in being able to alter the
effects of those bad genes through drugs, surgery and other methods, said Dr.
John Belmont, a geneticist at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.

   Of potential gene therapies, Belmont said: "None of this stuff is really
ready for prime time."

   He spoke to physicians Thursday at the Texas Medical Association's annual
meeting at the Convention Center.

   Better methods are needed to carry healthy genes into cells before gene
therapy can even be considered promising, he said.

   In the meantime, patients reading and hearing accounts of early research
believe scientists are much closer than they are to effective gene therapies.

   Belmont said there are as many as 7,000 known genetic disorders, ranging from
the common - such as hypertension - to the relatively rare.

   "The vast majority of human diseases have some genetic component," he said,
estimating that one person in 10 people will experience a genetic disorder
during his or her lifetime, including high blood pressure, atherosclerosis and
diabetes.

   While the ability to repair genes still is in its infancy, medicine has made
strides in treating genetic conditions.

   Mental retardation has been prevented in thousands of children suffering from
phenylketonuria, or PKU, a genetic disorder in which the body cannot tolerate a
type of enzyme. A specially modified diet prevents mental deterioration.

   And drug therapies have prevented life-threatening complications in disorders
ranging from hypertension to hemophilia.

   One problem facing gene therapy is that even patients with the same disease
may have different alterations of the faulty gene. The ultimate goal of genetic
therapy is to tailor the treatment for an individual patient's own genetic
problem, Belmont said.

   One method under study for transferring genes is through an altered
retrovirus, which actually invades and transfers some of its genetic material to
the host cell. That method has limits on how large a gene it can transport.

   TMA experiment

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998


                             2821 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                      May 7, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: GenVec therapy undergoing human trial; Rockville company seeking
approval for cancer treatment; Biotechnology

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   GenVec, a Rockville biotechnology company, has launched a human clinical
trial on a therapy it has developed to treat a leading cause of cancer death:
colon cancer that has metastasized to the liver.

   This is the second clinical trial GenVec has launched in its quest to get a
product approved for marketing.

   The company is close to wrapping up a key human trial on a gene therapy
vector that it developed for cystic fibrosis.

   The privately held company, which is engaged in a pioneering field of
medicine called gene therapy, is hoping to show in the trial at New York
Hospital in New York that the therapy is safe so it can seek Food and Drug
Administration approval for wider studies to show it's effective.

   The therapy uses a common virus called an adenovirus that has had a specific
type of a gene inserted inside it. The virus containing the gene is injected
directly into the tumors.

   GenVec expects that, once inside the body, the gene will make or "express" an
enzyme that converts fluorocytosine, a drug widely prescribed for fungal
infections, into a potent anti-cancer agent.

   Patients will begin taking fluorocytosine orally after they've gotten the
adenovirus injection. The conversion should occur as the anti-fungal drug passes
through the liver.

   While the market for a new therapy that effectively treats colon cancer in
the liver would be narrow -- about 150,000 in the United States -- the company
is hoping to show that an adenovirus loaded with a specific gene could be used
to treat other types of cancers that cause tumors, said Thomas D'Alonzo,
president and chief executive officer of GenVec.

   In the United States alone, more than 1.3 million people annually are
diagnosed with those types of cancers; more than 50,000 die annually from colon
and rectal cancer.

   No one has shown yet in human trials that gene therapy is an effective way to
treat diseases such as cancer, but numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical
companies have invested millions of dollars in developing a genetic therapy and
proving it effective.

   Several Maryland-based companies, including Genetic Therapy and Human Genome
in Gaithersburg, are among those attempting to target the genes -- there are
more than 100,000 in the human genetic system -- that can be used to treat
disease.

   Others, such as GenVec, are developing the delivery systems, called
"vectors," to get the genes to specifically target the disease needing
treatment.

   According to the New England Journal of Medicine, there are more than 20 gene
therapy clinical trials under way in the United States.

   Dr. Paul Fischer, vice president for research and development at GenVec, said
the company designed the cancer trial so it can also gather important
information about how the therapy may affect cancer tumors' biochemistry.

   In the trial, 18 patients with colon cancer that has moved to the liver -- a
common and life-threatening progression of the disease -- will be treated with
the adenovirus injected directly into the cancer site.

   Traditional side effects from the cancer drug used to treat tumors in the
liver include nausea and vomiting.

   The safety trial is expected to be completed in the next several months.

   While most medical authorities say gene therapy has never caused any serious
side effects, it will be at least a year before GenVec has enough data to seek
FDA approval to conduct human studies of how effective the therapy is.

   Pub Date: 5/07/96

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996


                             2822 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                       May 6, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: $ 189 million bonanza on lucky venture; MFS' takeover of Uunet to
benefit local firm's clients; Humbled and looking ahead; At NEA it's 'thank God
and we're on to the next dream'; Venture capital

BYLINE: Timothy J. Mullaney, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Of all the beneficiaries of last week's $ 2 billion deal for MFS
Communications Co. to take over Internet access provider Uunet Technologies
Inc., one of the biggest will be a Baltimore venture capital firm that stands to
make $ 189 million on a $ 4 million investment.

   New Enterprise Associates controlled 10.1 percent of Fairfax, Va.-based
Uunet, having paid $ 3.9 million for the stake in 1994. NEA endured a wild
roller-coaster ride in Uunet's stock price after the company went public last
May, and stands to make a killing for its clients when the merger goes through.

   "We've done it on multiple occasions," said NEA general partner Charles W.
Newhall III. "It's not all in a day's work -- we're humbled by it -- but we live
in a field of dreams. We say 'thank God' and we're on to the next dream."

   The 18-year-old firm has invested in about 320 companies, which Newhall said
have $ 18 billion in annual revenues. NEA has capitalized on the historic bull
market for new stock issues that has made millionaires out of people who founded
NEA-backed companies such as Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg and Integrated
Health Systems Inc. of Owings Mills.

   In most cases, venture capitalists get paid when a company is sold or goes
public. NEA's 15 initial public offerings last year topped the venture capital
industry for the third time in four years, according to a report by San
Francisco-based Venture-One Corp.

   "Over the last five years, NEA has averaged one IPO a month -- a remarkable
track record for an entrepreneurial money machine," Venture-One said.

   Not nearly all the cash from the Uunet takeover will go to NEA's principals,
however. The investment was made with part of a $ 200 million fund the firm
raised from pension funds and other investors in the early 1990s, Newhall said.
NEA principals put up 1 percent, and otherwise get paid a share of the profits
above the $ 200 million invested.

   Given the hit on Uunet, almost any return at all on the other $ 196 million
in the pool is pure profit.

   "Every charity in town comes to me and says, 'you own so many million
shares,' " Newhall jokes. More seriously, he said, "it's the customer's yacht.
Our partnerships are structured to look out for our customers' interests."

   Uunet founder Richard Adams was basically an engineer with a vision when he
went looking for money in 1994. He met up with NEA, and with two other venture
firms, and quickly raised the money he needed to move forward.

   But it came with a price. The venture capitalists decided that Uunet needed
upgraded management. "They said, basically, we're going to hire a management
team and we're going to put some money in," said Uunet President and Chief
Executive John W. Sidgmore [Adams is now Uunet's chairman]. "They brought people
in in early '94."

   Sidgmore, a colleague of NEA partner Peter Barris when they both worked for
General Electric Co., was at the top of the list. He had sold Intelecom
Solutions, a Montgomery County software firm, to Computer Sciences Corp. in 1991
and was still running Intelecom for the new owner when Barris approached him.

   "He basically convinced me this would be an exciting area to work in,"
Sidgmore said. "It was a little tiny company, much smaller than the one I was
running. But Peter convinced me it was a terrific opportunity."

   That it was. But even Sidgmore admits that he had no idea how terrific.

   "No, of course not," he said. "But you have to remember no one knew anything
about the Internet two years ago. Now everyone thinks they're an expert."

   What happened in between was 1995. Uunet did some big things right, and also
rode a wave of interest in the Internet that was mostly beyond its control.

   On its own, Uunet decided to focus on the business market, avoiding
low-margin competition with the likes of America Online for consumers' business.
And it made a key alliance with software titan Microsoft Corp., which took a 13
percent stake in Uunet.

   "Microsoft, in essence, financed development of the network," Sidgmore said.

   By then, the media had joined the Internet hype, and so had the stock market.
And, Sidgmore says, there was good reason.

   "People realized the Internet would become a revolutionary technology," he
said. "It enables virtually everyone to communicate with each other, and it was
dramatically cheaper than conventional networks. These two things were a sea
change."

   The wave allowed Uunet to go public at $ 47 a share last May. From then it
was a roller-coaster, with the stock rocketing above $ 70, then plummeting as
low as $ 24.50 after AT&T Corp. said it was getting into the Internet access
business, then rebounding as optimists comforted themselves with the idea that
upstart AT&T challengers past have grown into companies like MCI Communications
Corp.

   The takeover price was $ 61 a share. But the deal attracted negative
attention as well, because suspicious trading in Uunet options made it appear
news of the deal had leaked prematurely. Sidgmore said the company doesn't know
who bought the options before the deal.

   "A lot of communications technologies have come and gone, and AT&T hasn't
dominated them," Newhall said. "We felt that if you went into the business end
of the Internet backbone, you could add products and services to be
competitive."

   But Sidgmore said the company made the deal because moves like AT&T's entry
make the Internet business much more competitive.

   The Virginia company simply needed a bigger partner with deeper pockets to
make the technology investments Uunet will need to keep up.

   "The Internet is getting very serious, and there are going to be a lot of
very serious players," he said. "If we want to remain a leader, we were not
going to be able to do it on our own."

   Newhall said NEA's 16 investment professionals, based on St. Paul Street and
in Silicon Valley, live by their ability to spot trends, mostly in health care
and information technology industries. "In our business, our success is
determined by our ability to participate in things that change the way the world
is," he said. "I think we've done that."

   "We've basically succeeded in what we dreamed of doing: starting businesses
that are important."

   Pub Date: 5/06/96

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996


                             2823 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                       MAY 6, 1996, MONDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 3036 words

HEADLINE: INVESTMENT CLUB PROFILES
 So Let the Game Begin , N - S

BODY:

    Following are entries in the first Chronicle stock-picking contest for
investment clubs. Each club submitted the names of four stocks and a brief
explanation of why that stock should do well over the next 12 months.

   Each entry shows the investment club's name and the city or area where most
of its members live, followed by the club's selected stocks, their ticker
symbols and why the stock was selected.

   In one year, we'll calculate a total return for each club's portfolio, with
each stock equally weighted in the portfolio. The contest starts with April 30
closing prices. Winning clubs will be featured in a Chronicle story next May.

   80 Name: The Neighborhood Bank

   City: Danville

   * Cisco Systems Inc (CSCO ): Everybody will work with Cisco someday.

   * Hewlett-Packard (HWP ): Its rate of growth and expansion into the Asian
market should yield phenomenal results.

   * Kurzweil Applied (KURZ ): The price is right.

   * Merck & Co. (MRK ): An excellent company at a value price.

   81 Name: Occidental Investment Club

   City: San Francisco

   * Auspex (ASPX ): Growing company with little debt; focus on client/servers.

   * Cisco (CSCO ): The IBM of the 60s and 70s.

   * Robert Half (RHI ): Corporate focus on outsourcing.

   * Charles Schwab (SCH ): Continued growth; online strategy.

   82 Name: Odd Commodities

   City: Palo Alto

   * Anheuser Busch (BUD ): Divesting its nonbrewing subsidiaries and developing
international brewing activities.

   * Disney (DIS ): A steady gainer. The merger with Capital Cities/ABC and new
films should enhance earnings.

   * MBNA (KRB ): The leading issuer of affinity credit cards has 14 million
customers. We expect impressive earnings.

   * Price/Costco (PCCW ): New product lines, growing buying power, steady
expansion, we expect record earnings.

   83 Name: Odd Lot (1)

   City: San Francisco

   * Apple Computer (AAPL ): Apple has been so rotten for so long, we want to
get to the core of the matter.

   * Greyhound (BUS ): The buses are always full, trains and planes no longer
serve smaller communities and we've bought a lot of dogs over the years.

   * Intel (INTC ): We want to gamble with their chip.

   * Pixar (PIXR ): This is not a toy pick.

   84 Name: Odd Lot Investment Club (2)

   City: San Francisco

   * America Online (AMER ): Brand recognition and growth.

   * Green Tree Financial (GNT ): Supports growth industry of manufactured
housing.

   * Informix Corp. (IFMX ): Manages wide range of data-growth industry.

   * Odwalla (ODWA ): Because we like it!

   85 Name: Odd Lotters II Investment Club

   City: Eureka

   * Coca-Cola (KO ): An international stock.

   * IBM (IBM ): Positive growth after restructuring.

   * OEA (OEA ): Dependable; consistent growth.

   * Unocal (UCL ): An undervalued stock.

   86 Name: Odyssey Alliance

   City: Oakland

   * AMP (AMP ): 40 years in the cable business; now furnishes high-tech
companies with parts.

   * Rubbermaid (RBD ): Familiar with the products.

   * Sunrise Medical (SMD ): Socially responsible.

   * Motorola (MOT ): Sells cellular technology to other manufacturers

   87 Name: 1248 High

   City: San Francisco

   * Avon Products (AVP ): Well-managed, aggressive; reaching global markets.
Personalized service approach successful.

   * Cirrus Logic (CRUS ): Expect turnaround to upside after reaching 52-week
low; new management a major factor.

   * Opta Food (OPTS ): Believe trend toward healthier food will continue to be
strong. Its fat substitutes are well-received.

   * United Technologies (UTX ): All businesses under UTC's umbrella are top
performers. Has sound, agressive management.

   88 Name: P.V. Investors

   City: Portola Valley

   * Cheyenne Software (CYE ): Depressed pricing, great products and increasing
market share. Short-term problems.

   * Intuit (INTU ): Great products and depressed pricing.

   * Orthologic (OLGC ): Increasing market share and sales.

   * Sensormatic (SRM ): Depressed pricing, great products, short-term problems.

   89 Name: PAC Bay Investment Club

   City: Fremont

   * Amgen (AMGN ):

   * DSC Communication (DIGI ):

   * Intel (INTC ):

   * Madge Networks (MADGF ):

   90 Name: PCS Networks

   City: Emeryville

   * Microtek Medical (MTMI ): We select stocks based purely on technical
analysis.

   * Prime Medical Services (PMSI ):

   * Spectrum Control (SPEC ):

   * Timberline Systems (TMBS ):

   91 Name: Peninsula Investment Exchange

   City: San Mateo

   * BioTechnology Gen (BTGC ): Is among S&P's highest investment-ranked stocks.

   * Cisco Systems (CSCO ): A tremendous performer for the past two years.

   * Coca-Cola (KO ): A consistently strong performer; should benefit through
exposure at Olympics.

   * Nike (NKE ): A strong performer over the last few years; successfull
marketing to young consumers.

   92 Name: Peninsula Temple Beth El Women's Investment Club

   City: San Mateo

   * Apple Computer (AAPL ): We feel that Apple has great potential for a
productive turnaround.

   * Coca-Cola (KO ): We feel that Coke will be a winner due to it being a major
sponsor of the Summer Olympics.

   * G.M. Hughes (GMH ): Wee feel that G.M. Hughes has superior satelite digital
information on the Internet.

   * Intuit (INTU ): We feel Intuit has, and is further developing, good banking
programs and has a popular online banking program.

   93 Name: Petaluma Senior Investors

   City: Petaluma

   * American Home Product (AHP ): Diversified with history of earnings growth.
Positioned to capitalize on the aging population.

   * American Management Systems (AMSY ): Three year compounded annual growth
rate of 23.9 percent in revenues. Rapid growth in the international market.

   * Hewlett-Packard (HWP ): Well-managed with execllent growth in revenues and
profits. New product introductions.

   * Optical Coating Lab (OCLI ): Unique product in demand from auto
manufacturers and nations around the world. Potential for rapid growth.

   94 Name: Pharaohs of Fortune

   City: San Rafael

   * AirTouch Commun. (ATI ): Just a guess.

   * Century Telephone (CTL ): Has the rural market in the South almost
exclusively. Poised for cellular growth.

   * Merck (MRK ): Has new direction with generic, more affordable drugs.

   * Motorola (MOT ): Shows all the signs of development on the rise.

   95 Name: Platinum Investment Club

   City: San Francisco

   * Apple Computer (AAPL ): New management (CEO).

   * Cisco Systems (CSCO ): Ran NAIC template -- good numbers.

   * CNS (CNXS ): See market potential.

   * Southern Pacific (RSP ): Pending merger.

   96 Name: Poverty Stinks Investment Club

   City: Lafayette

   * Cisco Systems (CSCO ): This Bay Area company has maintained technical
leadership in a competitive industry.

   * Greentree Financial (GNT ): Niche lender in a fast growing industry.

   * Qualcomm (QCOM ): Digital wireless is ''it'' and Qualcomm has ''it.''

   * Smart Modular (SMOD ): Their global link modem card can shake hands with
any European phone company.

   97 Name: Presidio Investment Club

   City: San Francisco

   * Coca-Cola (KO ): Everyone drinks Coke. Huge world market currently and in
the future.

   * Disney (DIS ): Branching into more media ventures.  More distribution
channels mean higher sales and earnings.

   * Hollywood Entertainment (HLYW ): Although the stock has taken a beating,
the company is beating Blockbuster at its own game. It'll turn around.

   * Qualcomm (QCOM ): The future of cellular technology.  Qualcomm's patent on
CDMA, and numerous partnerships with major players, signal a bright future.

   98 Name: Prism, An Investment Partnership

   City: San Mateo

   * Adaptec (ADPT ): Best annual report and best performer in our portfolio.

   * Informix (IFMX ): For Illustra and Metacube.

   * Intel (INTC ): We like Intel because it does so well.

   * Worldcom (WCOM ): No chance of mad cow disease with this provider of video
and voice products, which beat out McDonald's.

   99 Name: The Profits

   City: Castro Valley

   * Imperial Bank (IBAN ): One of our members told us about this stock.

   * OEA (OEA ): New legislation regarding air bags should open growth for this
company.

   * Office Depot (ODP ): Projections for future growth look rosy.

   * Oracle (ORCL ): One of the best managed, best-rated companies in the field.

   100 Name: Profits Unlimited

   City: Modesto -- Georgia Pacific (GP ): Increasing sales and income per
share.  -- Johnson & Johnson (JNJ ): Growth potential in medical supplies sector
worldwide.

   * Kmart (KM ): Reorganization and refinancing.

   * Pixar Corp. (PIXR ): Suppliers of technical animation with growth
potential.

   101 Name: Promise Investment Circle

   City: Monterey

   * Cisco Systems (CSCO ): Great upward earnings for seven years,

   with a lot of growth potential in this industry.

   * Healthsource (HS ): Seven years of upward earnings, not too much debt, and
is expanding through acquistions and new membership

   * Linear Tech (LLTC ): Even though the semiconductor industry is down, there
is plenty of growth to this small company.

   * Qualcomm (QCOM ): The expanding wireless communications growth potential.

   102 Name: Prospector's Private Reserve Club

   City: Saratoga

   * Apple Computer (AAPL ): A turnaround situation or potential buyout due to
new management.

   * Lamson & Sess'ns (LMS ): Aggressive small growth stock poised to take
advantage of a strong construction market.

   * Merck (MRK ): Project an increase in earnings due to potential high demand
for Fosamex, a treatment in osteoporosis.

   * Travelers Group (TRV ): A well-positioned insurance company which should do
well in the new environment of insurance regulation.

   103 Name: Prosperity Investors Club

   City: Palo Alto

   * Cypress Semiconductor (CY ): Has been hit hard by tech slump, earnings
should be good.

   * Hewlett-Packard (HWP ): Good record, solid company.

   * Johnson & Johnson (JNJ ): High rating in Value Line.

   * Silicon Graphics (SGI ): CEO McCracken is back on the job day to day,
third-quarter earnings should be good.

   104 Name: Prosperous Black Women (PBW)

   City: Richmond

   * Amati Communications (AMTX ): Students in a financial class at McAteer High
School recommended the stock.  -- Data Dimensions (DDIM ): Will be responsible
for changing the clock to the year 2000.

   * Motorola (MOT ): We all have Motorola cellular pagers/phones.

   * Neurobiological Tech (NTII ): Is located in Richmond. The medication will
provide relief from severe pain.

   105 Name: Pure Play Research and Investment Group

   City: Fremont

   * Cisco Systems (CSCO ): The world's largest networking company.

   * Iomega (IOMG ): Has a removable disk drive, and should dominate.

   * Netscape (NSCP ): The leader in the browser software needed to cruise the
Internet.

   * US Robotics (USRX ): USRX dominates the modem industry.

   106 Name: Queen Midas

   City: San Francisco

   * Digi International (DGII ): Has bright prospects for leading in data
communications.

   * First Empire State (FES ): This New York bank serves an area which promises
to grow and revitalize in the next 12 months.

   * Jetform (FORMF ): Marketing innovative software and could double earnings
in the next year.

   * Valspar (VAL ): Should benefit from building startups and residential
improvements.

   107 Name: Quicksilver

   City: San Ramon

   * Bay Networks (BAY ): Continues to produce new products with a focus on
streamlining internal processes.

   * Iomega (IOMG ): Product is also a computer accessory; more information
requires more storage capacity.

   * PeopleSoft (PSFT ): Growth potential, expansion into greater business
applications.

   * U.S. Robotics (USR ): Product (modem) viewed as standard PC accessory;
rapid product development; historic growth.

   108 Name: RAT Investment Club

   City: San Francisco

   * Boston Scientific (BSX ): A medical technology company with great
acquisitions.

   * Newbridge Networks (NN ): Products for LAN and WAN applications beginning
to pay off.

   * Semtech (SMTC ): A good play on a semiconductor company with expanding
profit margins.

   * Symantec (SYMC ): Licenses antivirus software to Netscape.

   109 Name: RockyTech Investment Partnership

   City: Richmond

   * Ampex (AXE ): Storage devices.

   * Bay Network (BAY ): Internet explosion.

   * BrookTree (BTRE ): Semiconductors.

   * Mesa (MXP ): Natural gas.

   110 Name: SF Fogbank Investment Club

   City: San Francisco

   * AirTouch Communications (ATI ): Well-positioned in the fast-growing
wireless industry, strong demand for cellular phones.  -- CNS Inc. (CNXS ):
Holds exclusive rights to an external nasal dilator; develops products for
monitoring brain waves during surgical procedures.

   * Rotech Medical Corp. (ROTC ): Fast-growing provider of home health care
services; has aggressive acquisition strategy.

   * Thermo Instrument Systems (THI ): The leading supplier (with recent
acquisition) of analytical instruments; provides varied environmental services.

   111 Name: San Francisco Profit Prophets

   City: San Francisco

   * Catalina Marketing (POS ):

   * Linear Technology (LLTC ):

   * Service Corp. Int. (SRV ):

   * Thermo Electron (TMO ):

   112 Name: San Mateo Newcomers Investment Club

   City: San Mateo

   * Genzyme (GENZ ): Cutting edge of medicine technology.

   * King World Prod. (KWP ): Possible takeover. Distributor of top TV programs.

   * Open Text (OTEXF ): Royalties received each time networking engine (Yahoo!)
is used.

   * Seeq (SEEQ ): Low-priced -- has worldwide customers.

   113 Name: Savvy Spenders

   City: San Mateo

   * Cost Plus (CPWM ): New IPO. Have shopped the local stores for years.

   * EMC (EMC ): Excellent growth potential.

   * Genentech (GNE ): Strong new product development.

   * Imatron (IMAT ): Local company with lots of potential.

   No dye image, noninvasive.

   114 Name: Shoreline Ladies Investment Club

   City: Half Moon Bay

   * Chiron Corp. (CHR ): Like growth of the pharmaceutical industry and the
positive news of this company.

   * Kerr-McGee (KMG ): Like this stock because of potential rise in oil prices.
Good performance during past couple of years.

   * Oracle (ORCL ): Growth potential.

   * SkyWest (SKYW ): People are traveling more.

   115 Name: Sierra Stockettes II

   City: Tahoe City

   * Apple (APPL ): Has hit bottom and has nowhere to go but up.

   * Merck (MRK ): Has a stellar line of new products.

   * Qualcomm (QCOM ): Has a new cell phone concept with great growth prospects.

   * Varian (VAR ): Cancer research treatment looks promising.

   116 Name: Silicon Valley Investment Club

   City: Milpitas

   * Biotechnology General (BTGC ): Profitable biotech.

   * C-Cube (CUBE ): Last year's winner.

   * Itron (ITRI ): Limited monopoly.

   * Matritech (NMPS ): Unique and promising products.

   117 Name: Smarts

   City: Lafayette

   * Accumed (ACMI ): We like Accumed's easier and more accurate pap smear
tests.

   * Applied Materials (AMAT ): We still think this company has value and is led
by an excellent CEO.

   * Imatron (IMAT ): Their heart scanning device will cut costs and provide
earlier detection of heart disease.

   * Sandisk (SNDK ): This maker of flash memory data storage products is
selling at a bargain.

   118 Name: Sonoma County Gals Investment Club

   City: Santa Rosa

   * Applebee's Int. (APPB ): Continues to add more than 100 restaurants a year
along with opening franchised Rio Bravo restaurants in '96.

   * DSC Communications (DSC ): We have local interest in this telecom company;
it's our high-tech choice.

   * Imatron (IMAT ): We wanted to be invested in the medical field as well as
in a penny stock.

   * Komag (KMAG ): Sales are expected to rise in '96; they spent last year in
research and remodeling and are now positioned for growth.

   119 Name: SOPI

   City: Kensington

   * America Online (AMER ): A successful, user-friendly online service. With
appropriate alliances, has more growth potential.

   * Human Genome Science (HGSI ): A leader in gene mapping and gene therapy.
Should benefit from investor interest in drug development companies.

   * KLA Instruments (KLAC ): A star in the precision instrument industry which
seems to have taken an unfair hit and should come back.

   * Medicis Pharmaceutical (MDRX ): Almost debt-free. Has new products and has
been growing at impressive rates.

   120 Name: Spike Heels Investment Club

   City: Walnut Creek

   * Iomega (IOMG ): Makes the disk drive everyone is talking about and buying.

   * Monsanto (MTC ): Good management team poised to cash in on biotech advances
over the last three years.

   * Presstek (PRST ): Makes a product the world needs and is buying technology
to laser etch glass printing plates.

   * Rexall Sundown (RXSD ): Health care, natural-food market player. Picked up
accounts like Wal-Mart for its brands.

   121 Name: Stock Up Investment Club

   City: Alamo

   * Chevron (CHV ): Oil reserves at a low and we expect prices and profits to
rise.

   * Hewlett-Packard (HWP ): Broad array of dominant niche-market products, a
well-run company.

   * Schering-Plough (SGP ): Good historical growth.

   * Sun Microsystems (SUNW ): Java and aggressive, profit-oriented management.

   122 Name: Stockwatchers

   City: Pleasanton

   * General Electric (GE ): Outstanding leadership and management, strong
global presence and prospects, high dividends, strong growth.

   * Health South (HRC ): Provides medical rehabilitation centers which, with
aging population, will play large role in managed care.

   * Informix (IFMX ): One of three companies providing much-needed technical
data storage.

   * Merck (MRK ): Prominent in AIDS research, promising growth.

   123 Name: Stockwatchers Investment Club

   City: Oakland

   * Air Gas (ARG ): Earnings have been growing rapidly.  Has successful
acquisition program.

   * Chiron (CHIR ): Local company; good management.  Successful in developing
products using biotechnology.

   * Oracle (ORCL ): DBMS software has been well-received.  Earnings
outstanding.

   * Oxford Health (OXHP ): Are in a business growing at record pace; earnings
increasing rapidly.

   124 Name: Sysware

   City: Fremont

   * Celeritek (CLTK ): The company has good fundamentals.

   * NRP (ATLT ): The technical graph moves upward nicely.

   * Penril Datacomm (PNRL ): The industry has great potential.

   * Telular (WRLS ): Stock is undervalued and has great possibility of a
buyout.

GRAPHIC: CHART: SEE TEX

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1996


                             2824 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                               May 5, 1996 Sunday
                                 STATE EDITION

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Drug giants resort to tough tactics in fight for product market share

BODY:

   Continued from Page One speculating that a merger or takeover is in the
offing; such rumors last year helped boost the stock by 48 percent. So far, the
stock has dropped nearly 7 percent this year, after closing at $54.125 on
Friday.

    Simultaneously, the Madison drug maker which may be best known for
Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's foot pads is undergoing a subtle but significant
transformation now that Richard J. Kogan is in charge. His promotion in January,
after 10 years as president, made him the company's first new chief executive in
more than a decade.

    "Beer cans?" chortled Kogan, 54, when asked about the embarrassing
revelations contained in the suit. "I certainly hope we didn't hand out cans of
beer, but," he added, flashing a knowing grin, "I really shouldn't say anything
more about it. Litigation, you know." Coyness aside, Kogan faces a conundrum. On
one hand, he's expected to operate in much the same way as his successful
predecessor, Robert Luciano, Schering-Plough's chairman and a bulldog of a
manager, who was chief executive since 1982 back when the drug industry was
considered more gentlemanly. In that light, the spat with Pfizer can be
considered predictable, if nothing else. Similarly, Schering-Plough recently
funded a study that took a swipe at Claritin's leading rival, Seldance, a
Hoechst Marion Roussel drug.

    "Bob and Dick have worked together very closely and their views on corporate
strategy are so similar," said Anthony Wild, who spent 22 years at
Schering-Plough before joining Warner-Lambert Co. last year, where he now heads
the pharmaceutical business. "I don't believe too much will change too quickly."

    Yet, the Bronx-born Kogan, whose first job was selling peanuts and popcorn
at Yankee Stadium, must also find a way to differentiate himself from Luciano,
even as he looks to build on their past achievements. Investors may reminisce
about a strategy that turned an unwieldy collection of businesses a decade ago
into a tightly focused drug machine, but they won't be content with a status quo
regime, especially when mergers are creating bigger competitors. The road ahead
"Dick clearly faces a lot of challenges. He needs to get some new products in
the hopper and he hasn't really gotten after the cost structure yet," said
Joseph Riccardo, a securities analyst at Bears Stearns & Co., who follows the
pharmaceutical industry. "Of course, he's a relatively young man and deserves an
opportunity to run his own show. But it's going to be hard for anybody to match
what Bob Luciano did for that company."

    For his part, Kogan is eager to convey that change albeit gradual is under
way. In a wide-ranging interview recently in his office at Giralda Farms, an
expansive corporate campus near Drew University, a dapper and amiable Kogan
defended Schering-Plough's record, even as he spoke of needed improvements.

    "I am questioning past practices and rethinking some strategies," he said,
while declining to be specific. "And I'm trying to get the organization to work
a little harder and a little faster and stay focused. I'm also reviewing our
research strategies." Among his recent initiatives was shrinking the size of the
health care sales force, de-emphasizing cardiovascular research and altering
compensation for top executives to more closely reflect actual performance.

    "That surprised and impressed me. He's putting his own compensation on the
line," said David Saks, a securities analyst at Gruntal & Co. "Kogan is saying
he'll get paid based on results. He's coming in at a tough time. But that's the
sign of a tough man and it tells you he has a lot of confidence."

    Indeed, Kogan stressed that he's not interested in a merger, even though he
could wind up running a much bigger company. Of course, a deal might also
abruptly end his tenure as chief executive, depending upon who's left in charge.
But like many chief executives who don't want to be associated with layoffs
these days, Kogan is unnerved by the public backlash over mounting job losses
and the related furor over rising executive pay.

    "I don't want to stand up on a podium and announce layoffs. That's not my
role as chief executive," said Kogan.

    "We don't feel pressed to merge. And I don't feel the need to distinguish
myself (from Luciano). I'm not the kind of individual who has those needs, in
terms of ego. We won't pursue opportunities to enhance my reputation or flatter
myself."

    "I will tell you that whether one has 3 or 5 percent of the world market
won't make a difference," he continued, referring to the 5 percent share that
Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Sandoz Ltd. will command after they merge. "Forty percent
would make a difference. I do think that size is an issue, but we're big enough
so that it's not the issue of size that's important. It's the issue of
innovation and implementation."

    But can Schering-Plough continue to grow through internal means? Spending on
research and development is projected to grow by 6.5 percent, to about $700
million. So far, however, critics say the drug maker which has increasingly
turned to deals with small biotechnology firms to bolster drug-discovery efforts
must jumpstart its research.

    The company's pharmaceutical sales grew 15 percent last year, to nearly $4.5
billion, but nearly half of that was generated by just five products. The
biggest seller, by far, was the Claritin line of antihistamines, which racked up
$789 million in revenue and, some securities analysts predict, could become the
company's first billion-dollar drug in a few years.

    The rosy forecasts reflect anticipation that Claritin will soon be approved
for sale in Japan, a market that Kogan calls "very important" to the product's
future. Wall Street also assumes that competitive products won't be as effective
or catch up to an established brand. "One has to be concerned about Claritin,
but they've done very well so far," said Gruntal's Saks. "I mean watching
Claritin sales grow is like watching Babe Ruth hit a baseball."

    Another big seller has been Proventil, an asthma drug that produced $422
million in 1995 sales. But its future is shaky. Earlier this year, generic
rivals hit the market. Although Schering-Plough expected the onslaught and
released its own generic version, some analysts forecast that Proventil sales
may drop at least 50 percent next year. The bets are covered Kogan, however, is
unperturbed and maintains that several upcoming products, which are in various
stages of development, will eventually compensate for the impending loss. "We
knew this was coming," he said. "But we have a good product pipeline and a
number of products that we hope to get approved. I think our product pipeline is
strong."

    Among the projects under way are studies that would determine new uses for
some existing drugs, which he expects will goose sales. Among the examples he
cited are new uses for Claritin, Eulexin, a cancer drug, and Intron A, another
cancer drug and the company's second-biggest product, with $433 million in sales
last year.

    Then there are several newer drugs being designed to fight hepatitis C,
Crohn's disease and other bowel ailments, and fungus. Some, however, are
actually licensed from other companies such as Finland's Orion, which developed
Fareston for advanced breast cancer that involve further clinical tests.

    "In general, there are a lot of interesting compounds in the early stages,"
said Mariola Haggar, an analyst with Deutsche Morgan Grenfell/CJ Lawrence, who
believes some drugs in the later stages of development may have the potential to
generate $200 million to $300 million in annual sales. "There's no extreme
urgency here, but I think Kogan will have to step up his in-licensing program,"
a reference to acquiring rights to further develop and market drugs discovered
by smaller companies.

    Indeed, Schering-Plough executives repeatedly trumpet several pacts signed
with small biotechnology companies as a means of bolstering their research. Such
moves are increasingly common among the big drug makers, which often find they
don't possess the right technology or scientific expertise to otherwise develop
compounds fast enough to be competitive.

    Among the deals Schering-Plough pursued was the recent $55 million purchase
of Canji Inc., a San Diego company that is using gene therapy to detect tumors.
Others involve collaborative efforts, including one agreement with Pharmacopeia
Inc., which is based in Princeton, to use combinatorial chemistry to discover
new drugs.

    The drug maker defends these deals as necessary, given the decision to use
its 700-strong scientific staff to research drugs in only a few areas, such as
central nervous system disorders, cancer, asthma and allergies. "Strategic
alliances increase the number of novel things we can bring and increases our
chances of success long-term," said Dr. Cecil Pickett, an executive vice
president in charge of drug discovery. "We have to be cutting-edge in new
therapies . . . We don't want to be on the sidelines watching the technology
develop."

    On its other front, the health-care division, Schering-Plough is anything
but cutting edge. The health care business, which in addition to popular suntan
lotions includes Di-Gel, Chlor-Trimeton, A&D Ointment and St. Joseph's aspirin,
is struggling mightily after posting a 4 percent sales decline last year, to
$633 million.

    Kogan blames cheaper private-label products sold by grocery and pharmacy
chains, but defends his commitment to the unit and ticks off several reasons
why: It pays for one-quarter of the company's $1.125 dividend per share,
generates $100 million in cash and provides a 20 percent pretax return on sales.
"It's a solid business that's not growing, but produces a lot of cash and a
return on investment, yet has no effect on Schering-Plough's business," he said.

    One fallback strategy to boosting the unit might be to purchase some
products. Meanwhile, Kogan doesn't mind letting word out that Claritin, which
has patent protection through the 2000, may be switched to over-the-counter
status even sooner, a move that would likely revive the whole division.

    "We have the ability to compete. We have research on a world-class basis,"
he insisted, adding that, five years hence, he believes Schering-Plough will
still be an independent drug maker and that he'll still be in charge. "We're a
scrappy company."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2825 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                               May 5, 1996 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Drug giants battle. Rivals resort to gloves-off competition.

BODY:

   Several weeks ago, anxious executives at Schering-Plough Corp. filed a
lawsuit accusing a big competitor, Pfizer Inc., of maligning their most
important product the popular Claritin antihistamine as part of a campaign to
promote a new, rival drug. Not surprisingly, Pfizer struck back with its own
lawsuit. But the documents contained some startling charges about
Schering-Plough. In an effort to discredit Pfizer and its new medication which
unlike Claritin, can cause drowsiness the Schering-Plough sales force employed
several eyebrow-raising tactics to best its competition.

   According to the suit, the sales team visited doctors' offices and quietly
placed stickers over Pfizer drug samples that read: "May cause drowsiness.
Alcohol may intensify this effect." Not ones for subtlety, they also distributed
beer cans. And to drive home the message, they left copies of a Good
Housekeeping article entitled "Everyday Medicines That Can Land You in Jail,"
attached to graphs from studies comparing the sedating effects of both drugs.
The episode, which was quickly settled, helps illustrate how the pharmaceutical
industry has changed in recent years. Once better known for courtly,
white-gloved collegiality, drug makers nowadays think nothing of taking off the
gloves when it comes to fighting for market share. That's especially true when
the arena is the doctor's office, one of the most desirable places to establish
a drug's supremacy. The fracas also reveals a great deal about Schering-Plough,
a $5.1 billion company that's facing a host of imposing challenges. Besides the
threat to its biggest money-maker, there are persistent concerns over the
quantity of new drugs under development and slowing sales of consumer health
products. As a result, Wall Street is always speculating that a merger or
takeover is in the offing; such rumors last year helped boost the stock by 48
percent. Simultaneously, the Madison drug maker which may be best known for
Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's foot pads is undergoing a subtle but significant
transformation now that Richard J. Kogan is in charge. His promotion in January,
after 10 years as president, made him the company's first new chief executive in
more than a decade. "Beer cans?" chortled Kogan, 54, when asked about the
embarrassing revelations contained in the suit. "I certainly hope we didn't hand
out cans of beer, but," he added, flashing a knowing grin, "I really shouldn't
say anything more about it. Litigation, you know." Coyness aside, Kogan faces a
conundrum. On one hand, he's expected to operate in much the same way as his
successful predecessor, Robert Luciano, Schering-Plough's chairman and a bulldog
of a manager, who was chief executive since 1982 back when the drug industry was
considered more gentlemanly. In that light, the spat with Pfizer can be
considered predictable, if nothing else. Similarly, Schering-Plough recently
funded a study that took a swipe at Claritin's leading rival, Seldance, a
Hoechst Marion Roussel drug. "Bob and Dick have worked together very closely and
their views on corporate strategy are so similar," said Anthony Wild, who spent
22 years at Schering-Plough before joining Warner-Lambert Co. last year, where
he now heads the pharmaceutical business. "I don't believe too much will change
too quickly." Yet, the Bronx-born Kogan, whose first job was selling peanuts and
popcorn at Yankee Stadium, must also find a way to differentiate himself from
Luciano, even as he looks to build on their past achievements. Investors may
reminisce about a strategy that turned an unwieldy collection of businesses a
decade ago into a tightly focused drug machine, but they won't be content with a
status quo regime, especially when mergers are creating bigger competitors.
"Dick clearly faces a lot of challenges. He needs to get some new products in
the hopper and he hasn't really gotten after the cost structure yet," said
Joseph Riccardo, a securities analyst at Bears Stearns & Co., who follows the
pharmaceutical industry. "Of course, he's a relatively young man and deserves an
opportunity to run his own show. But it's going to be hard for anybody to match
what Bob Luciano did for that company." For his part, Kogan is eager to convey
that change albeit gradual is under way. In a wide-ranging interview recently in
his office at Giralda Farms, an expansive corporate campus near Drew University,
a dapper and amiable Kogan defended Schering-Plough's record, even as he spoke
of needed improvements. "I am questioning past practices and rethinking some
strategies," he said, while declining to be specific. "And I'm trying to get the
organization to work a little harder and a little faster and stay focused. I'm
also reviewing our research strategies." Among his recent initiatives was
shrinking the size of the health care sales force, de-emphasizing cardiovascular
research and altering compensation for top executives to more closely reflect
actual performance. "That surprised and impressed me. He's putting his own
compensation on the line," said David Saks, a securities analyst at Gruntal &
Co. "Kogan is saying he'll get paid based on results. He's coming in at a tough
time. But that's the sign of a tough man and it tells you he has a lot of
confidence." Indeed, Kogan stressed that he's not interested in a merger, even
though he could wind up running a much bigger company. Of course, a deal might
also abruptly end his tenure as chief executive, depending upon who's left in
charge. But like many chief executives who don't want to be associated with
layoffs these days, Kogan is unnerved by the public backlash over mounting job
losses and the related furor over rising executive pay. "I don't want to stand
up on a podium and announce layoffs. That's not my role as chief executive,"
said Kogan, who's so sensitive to the topic that he doesn't want to discuss his
1995 pay (the proxy statement reports $1.5 million in salary and bonus, plus
according to an outside estimate, $2.3 million in stock options granted). "We
don't feel pressed to merge. And I don't feel the need to distinguish myself
(from Luciano). I'm not the kind of individual who has those needs, in terms of
ego. We won't pursue opportunities to enhance my reputation or flatter myself."
"I will tell you that whether one has 3 or 5 percent of the world market won't
make a difference," he continued, referring to the 5 percent share that
Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Sandoz Ltd. will command after they merge. "Forty percent
would make a difference. I do think that size is an issue, but we're big enough
so that it's not the issue of size that's important. It's the issue of
innovation and implementation." But can Schering-Plough continue to grow through
internal means? Spending on research and development is projected to grow by 6.5
percent, to about $700 million. So far, however, critics say the drug maker
which has increasingly turned to deals with small biotechnology firms to bolster
drug-discovery efforts must jumpstart its research. The company's pharmaceutical
sales grew 15 percent last year, to nearly $4.5 billion, but nearly half of that
was generated by just five products. The biggest seller, by far, was the
Claritin line of antihistamines, which racked up $789 million in revenue and,
some securities analysts predict, could become the company's first
billion-dollar drug in a few years. The rosy forecasts reflect anticipation that
Claritin will soon be approved for sale in Japan, a market that Kogan calls
"very important" to the product's future. Wall Street also assumes that
competitive products won't be as effective or catch up to an established brand.
"One has to be concerned about Claritin, but they've done very well so far,"
said Gruntal's Saks. "I mean watching Claritin sales grow is like watching Babe
Ruth hit a baseball." Another big seller has been Proventil, an asthma drug that
produced $422 million in 1995 sales. But its future is shaky. Earlier this year,
generic rivals hit the market. Although Schering-Plough expected the onslaught
and released its own generic version, some analysts forecast that Proventil
sales may drop at least 50 percent next year. Kogan, however, is unperturbed and
maintains that several upcoming products, which are in various stages of
development, will eventually compensate for the impending loss. "We knew this
was coming," he said. "But we have a good product pipeline and a number of
products that we hope to get approved. I think our product pipeline is strong."
Among the projects under way are studies that would determine new uses for some
existing drugs, which he expects will goose sales. Among the examples he cited
are new uses for Claritin, Eulexin, a cancer drug, and Intron A, another cancer
drug and the company's second-biggest product, with $433 million in sales last
year. Then there are several newer drugs being designed to fight hepatitis C,
Crohn's disease and other bowel ailments, and fungus. Some, however, are
actually licensed from other companies such as Finland's Orion, which developed
Fareston for advanced breast cancer that involve further clinical tests. "In
general, there are a lot of interesting compounds in the early stages," said
Mariola Haggar, an analyst with Deutsche Morgan Grenfell/CJ Lawrence, who
believes some drugs in the later stages of development may have the potential to
generate $200 million to $300 million in annual sales. "There's no extreme
urgency here, but I think Kogan will have to step up his in-licensing program,"
a reference to acquiring rights to further develop and market drugs discovered
by smaller companies. Indeed, Schering-Plough executives repeatedly trumpet
several pacts signed with small biotechnology companies as a means of bolstering
their research. Such moves are increasingly common among the big drug makers,
which often find they don't possess the right technology or scientific expertise
to otherwise develop compounds fast enough to be competitive. Among the deals
Schering-Plough pursued was the recent $55 million purchase of Canji Inc., a San
Diego company that is using gene therapy to detect tumors. Others involve
collaborative efforts, including one agreement with Pharmacopeia Inc., which is
based in Princeton, to use combinatorial chemistry to discover new drugs. The
drug maker defends these deals as necessary, given the decision to use its
700-strong scientific staff to research drugs in only a few areas, such as
central nervous system disorders, cancer, asthma and allergies. "Strategic
alliances increase the number of novel things we can bring and increases our
chances of success long-term," said Dr. Cecil Pickett, an executive vice
president in charge of drug discovery. "We have to be cutting-edge in new
therapies ... We don't want to be on the sidelines watching the technology
develop." On its other front, the health-care division, Schering-Plough is
anything but cutting edge. The health care business, which in addition to
popular suntan lotions includes Di-Gel, Chlor-Trimeton, A&D Ointment and St.
Joseph's aspirin, is struggling mightily after posting a 4 percent sales decline
last year, to $633 million. Kogan blames cheaper private-label products sold by
grocery and pharmacy chains, but defends his commitment to the unit and ticks
off several reasons why: It pays for one-quarter of the company's $1.125
dividend per share, generates $100 million in cash and provides a 20 percent
pretax return on sales. "It's a solid business that's not growing, but produces
a lot of cash and a return on investment, yet has no effect on Schering-Plough's
business," he said. One fallback strategy to boosting the unit might be to
purchase some products. Meanwhile, Kogan doesn't mind letting word out that
Claritin, which has patent protection through the 2000, may be switched to over-
the-counter status even sooner, a move that would likely revive the whole
division. "We have the ability to compete. We have research on a world-class
basis," he insisted, adding that, five years hence, he believes Schering-Plough
will still be an independent drug maker and that he'll still be in charge.
"We're a scrappy company." Projects under way  The following is a partial list
of development and licensing deals the big drug maker has forged with smaller
biotechnology firms:  Corvas International Inc.: Develop antithrombotic drugs
for treating and preventing cardiovascular disorders. Pharmacopeia Inc.:
Collaboration into combinatorial chemistry for new drug discovery.

   COR Therapeutics Inc.: Develop drugs for treating blockages in coronary
arteries.

   Neurogen Corp.: Develop drugs for treating neuro-psychiatric drugs.

   ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.: License and develop drug to treat hepatitis C.

   Canji Inc.: Research gene therapy, develop cancer drugs.

GRAPHIC: 1. Richard J. Kogan is transforming the way Schering-Plough competes in
the pharmaceutical industry. 2. COLD COMFORT: Richard J. Kogan,
Schering-Plough's recentyly promoted chief executive, made a folksy presentation
to the drug maker's shareholders at the annual meeting late last month.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2826 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                           May 5, 1996 Sunday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: NEW CANCER VACCINES MAY STRENGTHEN SURVIVORS;
MALIGNANT CELLS BOOST IMMUNITY

BYLINE: By SUSAN FITZGERALD Knight-Ridder Newspapers

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

BODY:

   As soon as Mary Prolejko's cancerous tumor was removed in surgery, her
daughters rushed it to a hospital 30 miles away.

   At Thomas Jefferson University, a laboratory technician processed the
melanoma tumor and divided the cells into vials for freezing.

   Several weeks later, Prolejko, 73, was given a shot containing about 7 1/2
million of the tumor cells, which had been specially prepared so they no longer
could reproduce.

   The hope was that the very cells that caused her cancer might keep it from
coming back.

   Vaccines like the one being tested on Prolejko could turn out to be a whole
new arsenal against cancer.

   While the idea of cancer vaccines has been around for 100 years, a proven
vaccine has never been developed. Now, with a better understanding of the
complexities of the body's immune system, coupled with the new tools of
molecular biology and genetic engineering, scientists are convinced they will at
last get vaccines to work.

   Dozens of vaccines against a variety of tumors are under development, and
some are in early testing in patients with advanced disease. A lot of work is
going on in Philadelphia.

   A prostate cancer vaccine, for instance, is being tested on six people at
Lankenau Hospital. A vaccine for cancer of the colon and rectum, developed at
the Wistar Institute, will be tested on 48 patients at Jefferson. A study of a
vaccine for a type of lymphoma is beginning at the University of Pennsylvania.

   A large national study of a cancer vaccine is scheduled to begin this summer
involving about 800 people with melanoma, a form of skin cancer that is readily
cured if found early, but is usually deadly if it has spread into the body.

   Unlike traditional vaccines, such as those for mumps and measles, that keep
disease from occurring in the first place, cancer vaccines are intended for
people who already have cancer and have had surgery or other standard treatment.

   The vaccines work by training the body's immune system to scout out and kill
any remaining rebel cells and to stand watch against recurring tumor growth.

   Researchers believe vaccines could someday be used instead of chemotherapy
and radiation therapy for some cancers.

   "The appeal is that vaccines generally are not toxic, whereas chemotherapy
often is," said Dorothee Herlyn, a Wistar scientist who has developed two
approaches for colorectal cancer vaccines.

   Because chemotherapy kills many healthy cells along with cancerous ones, it
can cause unpleasant side effects such as hair loss and nausea.

   The vaccine works by sending a loud message to the immune system that it
should take notice of cells with similar characteristics and mount a defense.
That defense includes the body's armament of white blood cells known as T-cells,
as well as antibodies.

   Some researchers use whole tumors from patients to tailor individualized
vaccines. Others are concocting vaccines from bits of protein or carbohydrate
found on the surface of tumor cells. The vaccines typically are bolstered with
substances known to beef up the immune response.

   Some of the newest entries into the field are DNA vaccines. Penn researcher
David Weiner has found a way to inject genetic material for a particular tumor
protein directly into muscle, triggering a powerful immune response.

   Mice given a DNA vaccine for a type of lymphoma did not develop the disease
after being injected with 3 million tumor cells, Weiner said. He and three Penn
doctors have begun testing the approach on people with cutaneous T-cell
lymphoma.

   Some of the most promising work focuses on melanoma. Scientists have a
particular interest in the disease because its incidence is growing steadily,
with more than 38,000 cases expected to be diagnosed this year.

   David Berd, a Jefferson oncologist, has been experimenting since 1989 with a
vaccine for patients whose melanoma has spread to the lymph nodes. About 120
patients have gotten a series of shots made from their own tumors. The tumor
cells are irradiated just enough so they can't reproduce. They are also treated
with a chemical that subtly changes the cells so the immune system clearly
recognizes them as foreign.

   The vaccine involves a series of shots in the arm. The only side effect, it
seems, is a bit of soreness, itching or reddening at the injection site.

   Berd is encouraged by the results, which he will present next month in
Philadelphia at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

   Typically, the five-year survival rate for people with melanoma that has
spread to lymph nodes is 20 percent to 25 percent. He will report that the
four-year survival rate for his melanoma vaccine is 58 percent.

   Still, the vaccine's effectiveness has yet to be more rigorously tested in a
controlled study in which half the participants get the vaccine and half do not.

   Such a study will get under way soon with a melanoma vaccine developed by Dr.
Philip Livingston, a researcher at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New
York. The study, which will involve more than 800 patients in the United States
and Canada, is a Phase 3 trial, the last step before a company seeks the federal
Food and Drug Administration's approval to bring a new drug or vaccine to
market.

   Rather than using whole tumor cells, Livingston's vaccine targets a
particular marker on tumor cells - in this case a carbohydrate molecule. Some
researchers believe such an approach will trigger a better immune response and
is more practical than crafting individualized vaccines for every patient.

   Livingston reported on the vaccine last week at a national cancer research
meeting in Washington. Smaller studies have shown that the vaccine does
stimulate the production of antibodies. The large study about to begin, he said,
should answer the question of whether the vaccine can "kill circulating tumor
cells and keep new metastases from coming on."

   Such an assault on cancer has been shown to work in some animal experiments.

   Habib Fakhrai, a gene therapist at the University of California, Los Angeles,
and a research team reported dramatic results recently with a vaccine against a
deadly type of brain cancer. The vaccine was so effective that even when the
rats were injected with a massive dose of cancerous cells, they did not develop
new tumors.

   Fakhrai believes certain tumors are particularly sneaky because they secrete
a substance called tumor growth factor beta that acts like a shield to hide them
from the body's immune defenses. Fakhrai's vaccine is designed to break down the
shield.

   Fakhrai said he got approval from the National Institutes of Health to test
the vaccine in people with a type of brain tumor called glioblastoma and is
seeking a go-ahead from the FDA.

   Herlyn, of the Wistar Institute, said that while the vaccines being developed
are not designed to prevent cancer, she envisions the day when vaccines could be
used for people with a genetic predisposition for a certain type of cancer.

   "Maybe 10, 20, 50 years from now one may vaccinate people against breast
cancer," she said.

GRAPHIC: Cancer specialists are developing and testing new vaccines which they
hope will replace radiation and chemotherapy in preventing malignancies from
recurring. Mary Prolejko, who is recovering from melanoma, gets an injection of
her own tumor cells recently at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia.
KRT PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996


                             2827 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                     May 4, 1996, Saturday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Texas Heart Institute boosts ties with St.Luke's, plans new building

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, BILL MINTZ; Staff

BODY:

   An agreement strengthening the tie between St. Luke's
Episcopal Hospital and the Texas Heart Institute means the two
institutions will go into any health care alliance together,
their leaders said Friday.

   They also announced plans for a new six-story home for the
Texas Heart Institute to be named after its founder, Dr.
Denton Cooley.

   St.Luke's already has pledged $ 15 million to construct the
building, said Michael Jhin, the hospital's president.  A
fund-raising campaign is about to begin to raise another
estimated $ 15 million, said Meredith Long, chairman of the
heart institute's board.

   The new partnership agreement has implications beyond renewing
a 33-year tie between the two institutions.

   A planned merger between St.Luke's and Methodist hospitals
fell through earlier this year.

   Now, St. Luke's is considering offers from Memorial Healthcare
System, another nonprofit system, and Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Corp. - an aggressive for-profit chain whose network of 19
community hospitals is the largest in the Houston area.

   Both groups would consider St. Luke's a flagship that is based
in the prestigious Texas Medical Center.  It also gives
patients the advantage of high-tech medicine.

   ""At this time, when we might be considering affiliation with
groups outside the Texas Medical Center, we will go forward
together or not at all,'' Jhin said.

   He refused to give any hint of which system the hospital has
chosen or even if a choice has been made.

   However, he said the decision would be made soon.

   Cooley established the Texas Heart Institute in 1962.  It has
always been housed at St. Luke's.  There, he pioneered many
advances in heart surgery in Texas and the United States as
well as being the first to package such operations with a
single price tag.

   All Texas Heart Institute patients are hospitalized at St.
Luke's.

   If St. Luke's had lost its Texas Heart Institute affiliation,
it would have lost a jewel that draws patients from all over
the United States and the world.  Thirty percent of St.Luke's
patients last year came from outside the Houston area, Jhin
said.

   Neither Jhin nor Cooley would confirm that there had been a
move to sever the link between the two institutions, but both
emphasized that this agreement makes the affiliation more
permanent.

   Under the new agreement, the Texas Heart Institute and St.
Luke's keep separate governing boards.  But a new holding
corporation will be established with Cooley, the chairman of
the Texas Heart Institute board, the heart institute medical
director and St. Luke's president.

   The proposed building will sit at the corner of Bates Street
and Bertner Avenue in the heart of the Texas Medical Center
and adjacent to St.Luke's.  It will house most of the heart
institute's services.  The groundbreaking is scheduled for
later this year, said Jhin.

   ""The primary purpose of the building is research and
education,'' Cooley said.  He said the building will house
state-of-the-art research, such as work in gene therapy and
artificial hearts.

   Its design and exact positioning is subject to approval by the
Texas Medical Center board, which governs the center's land
use.

   Currently, Texas Heart Institute facilities are scattered
throughout St. Luke's and are rapidly outgrowing the
hospital's space.

   Jhin would not speculate about whether Houston's two medical
schools - Baylor College of Medicine and the University of
Texas Medical School at Houston - would continue their
affiliations with St. Luke's if a partnership with Columbia or
Memorial is worked out.

   ""We can't take anyone to any place they don't want to go,'' he
said.  But he said he hoped that all current hospital
affiliations would continue.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1996


                             2828 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1996 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        May 2, 1996 Thursday 2D EDITION

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-06

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS TO THE POST

BODY:

   Unified effort needed in wildlife management

   The Colorado Wildlife Federation recently provided input to SB 167, which was
passed by the legislature and signed by the governor, clarifying the
jurisdiction of the department of agriculture over depredating animals (wildlife
causing damage to livestock or crops).

   We worked closely with the bill's sponsors and were satisfied that the
resulting law was good for our membership, Colorado and the state's wildlife
resources.

   The troubling part of the experience was The Denver Post's reporting. Rather
than seize on the important consensus-building process between a few
conservation groups and the agricultural drafters for this bill, your report
sensationalized the issues. You chose to publish criticism of the bill by those
who either refused an invitation by the commissioner of agriculture to
participate in his efforts to clarify statutes or who have such antipathy to
controlling depredating wildlife that their views of agriculture sound like an
ugly caricature.

   Quoting only these respondents to the bill, you trivialized the participation
of those who worked hard to accomplish a better result than was originally
proposed. By describing some of the critics as "mainstream" you leave, once
again, the impression that conservation organizations in Colorado all have a
polarized view of agriculture and what CWF believes to be truly "mainstream"
political discourse in this state.

   The public, over 80 percent of whom support environmental protection, have
consistently shown a decline in conservation group membership over the past 10
years. It seems clear that when the newspaper relies on sensational reporting,
which unfairly excludes mentioning the kind of work most people are proud of -
reasonable dialogue among varying interests - then it is no wonder people have
lost confidence in these organizations.

    The Colorado Wildlife Federation wants a future for wildlife where people
can enhance the resource and not be confined to pavement and IMAX theaters to
see or hear an elk bugle or a wolf howl. The destructive trend, which you
encouraged, toward exclusion of rural Colorado forgets who controls the
landscape on the ground and characterizes ranchers and farmers as enemies of the
wildlife resource.

   Don't dehumanize the agricultural community or encourage those who would use
those tactics. Seeking consensus, recognizing property rights, the public
interest and scientific management techniques are not only fair but also get the
job done.

   DIANE GANSAUER, Executive Director

   Colorado Wildlife Federation

   Lakewood

   -- -- --

   Dystrophy association's efforts misrepresented

   Diane Eicher's Arpil 11 article about the efforts of the Luhr family of
Boulder to obtain a cure for their son Alex's Duchenne muscular dystrophy
expresses well the anguish experienced by families affected by this disease.
Unfortunately, it badly misrepresents the hugely successful leadership of the
Muscular Dystrophy Association toward this goal.

   MDA's worldwide research program has led the scientific assault against this
disease, granting more than $ 50 million to the world's top scientists studying
Duchenne and Becker dystrophies, and allocating more than $ 171.5 million in
services for those affected by these diseases. MDA-funded research led to the
most important scientific discovery in the battle against muscular dystrophy -
the funding in 1986 of the gene that, when defective, leads to Duchenne or
Becker muscular dystrophy - a breakthrough followed shortly by location of the
specific genetic defect involved in these disorders.

   Since that time, MDA's Duchenne research has focused on creating a form of
gene therapy that can halt the disease's destructiveness.

   Our scientists have accomplished that goal in laboratory animals and are
working diligently to fine-tune a safe, effective delivery method for humans.
It's MDA's continuing effort, not a new organization, that will lead to a
lifesaving treatment.

   Eric Hoffman, director of the Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Research Center at
the University of Pittsburgh, has received some $ 500,000 in MDA grants since
1987; teams of which he was a member have received more than $ 1 million from
MDA.

   It would seem that the Parent Project's contributions to Hoffman's work don't
represent a new emphasis on Duchenne research, but, more accurately, supplement
his MDA-funded efforts.

   The families interviewed in your story fail to acknowledge the value of MDA
services to those with Duchenne or any of 39 other neuromuscular diseases in our
program, but they are in a tiny minority. MDA is the only voluntary health
agency offering no-cost services for people with Duchenne and their families,
including support groups, summer camps, medical diagnostic and followup
treatment, assistance with wheelchair purchase and much more.

   MDA maintains clinics at The Children's Hospital and the University of
Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver serving those with any of 40
neuromuscular disorders.

   Readers may contact MDA's Denver office, (303) 691-3331; call MDA's toll-free
information lifeline at (800) 572-1717; or log onto the MDA Forum on CompuServe:
type "GO MDA."

   ROBERT ROSS, Senior Vice President

   Muscular Dystrophy Association

   Tucson

   -- -- --

   Managed care bill a cause for concern

   The April 2 editorial entitled, "Managed care plans may curb Medicaid costs,"
endorses SB 47, which transfers all Colorado Medicaid recipients into managed,
primarily capitated, "managed care" over a 3-year period. Further inspection
raises more concerns than assurances.

   The Colorado Medical Society believes the Medicaid program must function as a
safety net for the provision of health care to the state's poorest and
vulnerable population. Colorado's Primary Care Physician Program has achieved
cost savings, $ 10 million in fiscal years 1992-93 alone, by managing care and
significantly decreasing inappropriate use of emergency rooms and hospitals. The
Urban Institute, a Washington-based health care think tank, questions further
savings through tighter "managed care."

   The majority of Medicaid funds are spent for groups where "managed care" has
no record, nursing home and physically and mentally disabled patients.

   A better proposal might include: Outlaw the current schemes that allow
individuals to shelter and dispose of assets to "spend down" to Medicaid
eligibility levels (such expenditures only take funds away from the needy who
can't afford care); encourage Americans to purchase long-term care insurance,
either through direct tax incentives or by facilitating Medical Savings
Accounts; separate long-term care "living costs" from "health care costs"; and
consider providing tax credits for family caregiving.

   For the disabled, concern should be raised in breaking ongoing patient
relationships with physicians and providers of ancillary services, which could
be devastating in a patient population that often finds it difficult to develop
such relationships.

   Don't defeat SB 47, but create a pilot program before going forward. The
Colorado Medical Society would suggest broadening the scope to look at giving
the patient choice of delivery system, as the Louisiana Legislature did.

   Disabled patients might choose to stay in the current fee-for-service Primary
Care Program with strict budgetary guidelines, whereas healthier Medicaid
recipients might choose "more" managed care. It's wiser to study first and act
later.

   JOEL M. KARLIN, M.D. President

   Colorado Medical Society

   AMA Council on Legislation

   Denver

   -- -- --

   Pueblo college

   makes the grade

   As I read with interest your special report on the cost of a prestigious
higher education I couldn't help but reflect on my situation. I am not a
"traditional" student, having completed a successful career in another
profession and beginning a new one.

   I am enrolled at Pueblo Community College, pursuing a two-year degree in
computer information systems. The cost per credit hour is quite reasonable, and
the learning

   environment is incredible.

   Not only is the equipment I work with on the "cutting edge," PCC is in the
process of building the Gorsuch Center - which will be a facility of advanced
technology.

   The faculty here is as good as I have ever encountered. Not only is the
environment conducive to learning, but when I graduate I will be well equipped
to enter the industry.

   I have been in contact with several four-year institutions about seeking a
bachelor's degree after I graduate. A few, who will remain nameless but would
qualify as "prestigious" intimated that I might be admitted if I applied. Two
colleges, Adams State in Alamosa and Western State in Gunnison explained the
open-admissions policy for graduating community college students, and Adams
State would very much like to grant me a scholarship, assuming I can maintain my
present grade-point average.

   The PCC diploma may not have the prestige of an Ivy League sheepskin, but the
education I am receiving will equip me to enter the fleld on a par with anyone.

   On the day that I flip my tassel, I will be just as proud of my degree as any
new college graduate. Maybe more.

   MICHAEL SEAMAN

   Pueblo

   -- -- --

   Students' writings

   are telling stories

   To the teachers and principals whose students submitted baseball stories to
The Post:

   In response to The Post's call for the sixth- through 12th- graders to write
short stores about baseball, your students submitted stories featuring violent
bloodshed, suicidal ideation and harmful parenting. The stories were also loaded
with grammatical errors. The situation was bad enough to warrant a column by
John Moore, assistant sports editor ("Tales our children tell us," April 15).

   How did this come to be? Even if kids today are steeped in violence and have
difficulty producing coherent, correct essays, you don't send this stuff to a
state-wide newspaper for possible publication.

   I envision teachers giving the assignment, reading the results and saying to
students: "Sorry guys, try again. No violence. Complete sentences, please. And
check your spelling!" Stories that don't make the cut don't go out. I also
envision principals knowing when something is going out to the public,
spot-checking the material and saying to teachers: "Sorry guys, try again    "

   It is an interesting commentary on our schools that this stuff is sent out
and no one knows (or cares?).

   DENISE BARETICH

   Denver

   -- -- --

   No rush in Montana

   The reason for the slowness of proceedings at the Freeman property in Montana
is easily obvious: the murderers from Waco, Texas and Ruby Ridge, Idaho still
have yet to be prosecuted. What's the hurry?

   RALEIGH SNYDER

   Grand Junction

LOAD-DATE: May 02, 1996


                             2829 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 30, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Anti-obesity drug approved

BYLINE: A Tribune Wire Report

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   The Food and Drug Administration approved the first anti-obesity drug in 22
years Monday, a medicine that essentially fools patients into feeling full so
they eat less.

   Dexfenfluramine, created by Interneuron Pharmaceuticals, will be sold by
Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories under the name Redux. It will hit pharmacy shelves
this summer and cost consumers $ 2 per day, the company said.

   Eat less: Reducing calories by 30 percent appears to slow the rate of aging
in monkeys, evidence that humans could live longer by eating less, according to
a study in today's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   A National Institutes of Health study using about 200 monkeys showed a
well-balanced diet sharply reduced in calories caused the animals to have a
lower body temperature. It also caused slower metabolism and fewer changes in
biochemical markers for aging.

   Blindness gene: Scientists have found a gene that when defective causes a
severe form of retinitis pigmentosa, which blinds thousands of American men by
age 30.

   The RP3 gene is one of three genes on the X chromosome that cause
particularly severe RP that hits hardest in men. The newfound gene causes about
70 percent of these cases. The finding was reported in the May issue of Nature
Genetics.

   Pig hearts: Pigs with a heart problem similar to one that causes chest pain
in people showed marked improvement when treated with gene therapy, researchers
reported in May's Nature Medicine.

   Scientists implanted a ring in the hearts that squeezed one of the arteries
shut then injected viruses carrying a gene for a protein called FGF-5. It
sparked the growth of blood vessels around the obstruction.

NOTES: BRIEF; HEALTH BRIEFS

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996


                             2830 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                      April 28, 1996 Sunday FIRST EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Genetics spur hope in battle vs. cancer; Does it pay to save for
college?

BYLINE: By TIM CORNELL

BODY:

   When President Nixon declared war on cancer in 1971, the hope was that the
dreaded disease would be on its last legs by the turn of the century.

   Twenty-five years later, that hasn't happened. Not even close.

   But experts who gathered in the nation's capital last week for a major cancer
conference say plenty of progress has been made - particularly in using a
genetic approach to treating cancers. And they predict that the next 25 years
will see much more progress.

   While the much-hyped "war" on cancer raised expectations that turned out to
be false, Dr. Joseph Bertino, president of the American Association for Cancer
Research, said the National Cancer Act is responsible for most of what is now
known about treating cancer, the function of DNA and the immune system.

   "What we've learned we couldn't have anticipated 25 years ago," he said. "The
advances we've seen, the tremendous progress we've made in understanding the
cancer cell, the genetics. It's opened up an entire new area for prevention and
treatment."

   Bertino noted that the act, with its $ 25 billion in funding, also has had
impact on other diseases.

   "It made discoveries possible, not just in cancer therapy, but in the
treatment of AIDS and other life-threatening illnesses like Lou Gehrig's
disease.

   "I just can't imagine what's going to happen in the next two decades, given
adequate financial support," he said. "I'd be the last one to say we'll cure all
cancers in the next 20 years, because each is its own problem, but we're going
to do better and better."

   Today, doctors are proud of their success in treating childhood leukemias,
with a 70 percent cure rate. And there has been success in curing Hodgkin's
disease, bone cancer, testicular cancer and certain types of lymphomas.

   But, while regressions sometimes occur, there still is no cure for breast,
stomach, colon, lung, prostate and a host of other cancers.

   "Most are just as fatal today as they were 20 years ago," said Art Caplan,
professor of biomedical ethics at the University of Pennsylvania.

   On the positive side, Caplan said researchers are finally giving up on the
old strategy of blasting patients with toxic chemotherapies and radiation in
favor of a genetic approach.

   "The general strategy of using chemo and radiation to poison the cancer has
not proved successful," he said. "You wind up racing to see if you can kill the
cancer before you kill the patient."

   But the genetic approach is a cause for optimism, he said.

   "I understand the enthusiasm," he said. "Instead of trying to poison cancer,
shooting genetic information into cancers will be easier on the patient. It's a
very different strategy than just blasting to oblivion."

   He compared the differences in strategy to the way the military waged the war
in Vietnam as compared to the way the war in the Persian Gulf was fought.

   "Chemotherapy is like Vietnam - attacking and not getting anywhere," he said.
"Gene therapy is more like Desert Storm. It's a new way to think about the war.
We've got new weapons now."

   Dr. Richard Klausner, the new head of the National Cancer Institute, agreed
that genetics will be the key to a cure.

   "Cancer is a genetic disease and we're in a golden age of discovery," he
said.

   The Human Genome Project is on its way to decoding the exact sequence of the
billions of DNA fragments that make up a human being and locate all 100,000
human genes.

   Genetic discoveries have provided an extraordinary opening, he said. "They
have laid the stage to fulfill the promise," he said.

   The genes responsible for many cases of breast and ovarian cancer have
already been found.

   Each cancer probably has 10 to 15 possible central pathways that can allow
for the cell divisions to get started, he said. Identifying them is the
challenge.

   Genetics are also playing a role in making better use of the old chemotherapy
drugs.

   Bertino said researchers still don't know why some cancers respond well to
drug treatment, while others are resistant, but he said genetic findings are
zeroing in on the answers.

   "Mutations in cells are an important aspect of chemotherapy outcome," he
said.

   Last week's conference saw the presentation of some 4,000 scientific papers
on both laboratory and clinical cancer research. A good percentage of them dealt
with genetic findings.

   One paper touted a genetic "time bomb,' which may be able to kill cancer
cells without harming healthy ones. It is being tried against lung cancer cells
that have a defective version of a gene called P53.

   And a revival of a genetically engineered compound known as a monoclonal
antibody is for the first time helping breast cancer patients. It is being tried
on patients with an abnormal gene called HER-2-neu.

   Researchers also reported progress on a cancer vaccine aimed at preventing
relapses in patients with advanced skin cancer. It is called the GM2 melanoma
vaccine.

   The genetic discoveries are coming so fast and furious that even the experts
are having a hard time keeping up.

   "I thought I had gotten used to last year's alphabet soup," joked Dr. John
Weinstein of the NCI. "Now, there are hundreds more. And there are thousands
more to go. It can be bewildering, and it is even more difficult to keep the
incredible number of genes and gene products in perspective.

   "What we have to do is look for the central pathways to cancer, focus in on
them and find the choke points to exploit therapeutically," he said.

   Cancer experts, however, say more money is needed.

   "There are hundreds of good leads that cannot be followed today because of
limited funds," said Dr. Donald S. Coffey, president-elect of the AACR.

   He said government funding for cancer research, when adjusted for inflation,
has grown only 1 percent over 10 years.

   And he said that even if President Clinton's 1997 budget request for the NCI
is approved, still about three out of four of all research grants to win
scientific approval will not be funded.

   U.S. Rep. James Moran (D-Va.), whose 4-year-old daughter is battling a brain
tumor, made an impassioned plea to the AARC conference asking the scientists
themselves to lobby Congress for more money.

   "It gets pretty frustrating when I see the death and destruction cancer
causes and the minimal effort we are putting forth," said Moran, a native of
Natick. "We've got some misplaced priorities. We've got to declare war anew."So,
you did the right thing by your kids: started saving for their university days
while they were still in the bassinet, carefully socked away thousands of
dollars over the years to give them a shot at climbing the ivy wall to success.

   But    maybe you made a mistake.

   Because if you are capable of paying for their college yourself, chances are
you won't get much financial aid.

   But your spendthrift neighbor - who blew it all on boats and fancy cars and
now has nothing in the bank - has qualified for a big check from the college -
because he now needs the help.

   "If the system stays the way it is now, I'd say spend, spend, spend," said
Hugh W. Chandler, chairman of the guidance department at Weston High School. "It
isn't going to hurt you to save, but it isn't going to help you as it should."

   It's all part of the wacky world of college financing, where thrifty savers
stand to lose half their assets to college costs, according to Harvard economist
Martin Feldstein, former economic adviser to President Reagan - and the
spendthrift can get off scot-free.

   It works like this:

   Colleges take money from students who can afford it and give it to students
who can't. But first the colleges have to separate the haves from the have-nots.

   "Colleges expect you to put a large part of savings toward tuition," said
Thomas Parker, president of TERI Services Inc., which advises student-loan
guarantors. "But putting money in a savings bank is not a particularly good
thing to do."

   Colleges dole out financial aid by looking at how much money a student's
family has.

   They look at income, debts and savings. They count stocks and bonds, but not
personal property.

   So if a parent blows it all on a million-dollar house, the financial-aid
officer won't care, according to Parker.

   Some families can feel the system is stacked against them.

   "It certainly has a big impact on the perception of the fairness of the
system," said Michael McPherson, director of the Williams College Project on
Higher Education. "Families are hurt and discouraged by it."

   And as tuition rises, so does the difficulty of saving for college.

   The average cost of a four-year education at a private university is now more
than $ 68,000. Even at public universities, a degree now costs an average of $
24,000.

   And because colleges look at how much a family has saved in a retirement
account, "the scholarship rules discourage retirement saving as well as saving
for education," Feldstein concluded in a report circulated internally at the
National Bureau of Economic Research in Cambridge.

   In fact, more than half of all Massachusetts families aren't saving at all
for their children's college educations, according to a state-commissioned
survey last year.

   But some experts say these people are the ones making a mistake.

   "It's a common misperception that you're better off not saving," said Sandy
Baum, who chairs the economics department at Skidmore College in New York.
"Overall, the whole thing will cost you less if you save."

   If a college falls short on aid, the family will have to borrow. So Baum
figures it's cheaper to save early than borrow later.

   Plus, there's no telling how much aid a college will be willing to give a
student who can't afford it.

   Many colleges secretly set financial-aid packages to attract the kinds of
students they want, the Wall Street Journal reported this month.

   If a student innocently lets the university know he intends to be a premed
major, for example, that could cost him or her thousands in financial aid
because the college may prefer humanities majors.

   "You can't predict where your child will land in the pool," said Ann Coles,
director of the Higher Education Information Center at the Boston Public
Library.

   For Massachusetts families, Coles recommends the U.Plan.

   The U.Plan allows families to lock in tuition rates now while saving for
college down the road.

   By socking away at least $ 1,000 a year, a family will have at least $ 24,200
in 15 years tax-free, which can be used at 75 colleges in Massachusetts.

   If the child eventually wants to go out-of-state, or not go to college at
all, the parents still reap an 11 percent interest rate.

   "It's at least as good as mutual funds," said Peter Mazareas, director of the
Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority, which administers the U.Plan.

   By the deadline to apply, which is Tuesday, nearly 31,000 people will have
signed onto the plan.

   Many families, however, simply don't have the choice of saving, Parker said.

   If parents start saving when their child is born, they have to squirrel away
$ 489 a month for a private college.

   For many families, that simply isn't an option.

   "People don't save for college because they can't save for college," Parker
said. "So instead, they wait until (their kids are of) college age and then
borrow the money. There's not a great deal of saving going on."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996


                             2831 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        APRIL 28, 1996 Sunday D EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: CANCER VACCINE: AN IDEA WHOSE TIME MAY FINALLY HAVE COME< THE THEORY
IS BEING TESTED. TUMOR CELLS ARE INJECTED INTO THE PATIENT.< THE SHOTS WOULDN'T
PREVENT CANCER BUT MIGHT HALT ITS RETURN.

BYLINE: Susan FitzGerald, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   As soon as Mary Prolejko's cancerous tumor was removed in surgery, her
daughters rushed it to a hospital 30 miles away.

   At Thomas Jefferson University, a laboratory technician processed the
melanoma tumor and divided the cells into vials for freezing.

   Several weeks later, Prolejko, 73, was given a shot containing about 7 1/2
million of the tumor cells, which had been specially prepared so they could no
longer reproduce.

   The hope was that the very cells that caused her cancer might now keep it
from coming back.

   Vaccines like the one being tested on Prolejko could turn out to be a whole
new arsenal against cancer.

   While the idea of cancer vaccines has been around for 100 years, a proven
vaccine has never been developed. Now, with a better understanding of the
complexities of the body's immune system, coupled with the new tools of
molecular biology and genetic engineering, scientists are convinced that they
will at last get vaccines to work.

   Dozens of vaccines against a variety of tumors are under development in the
laboratory and some are in early testing in patients with advanced disease. A
lot of work is going on in Philadelphia.

   A prostate cancer vaccine, for instance, is being tested on six people at
Lankenau Hospital. A vaccine for cancer of the colon and rectum, developed at
the Wistar Institute, will be tested on 48 patients at Jefferson. A study of a
vaccine for a type of lymphoma is beginning at the University of Pennsylvania.

   A large national study of a cancer vaccine is scheduled to begin this summer
involving about 800 people with melanoma, a form of skin cancer that is readily
cured if found early, but is usually deadly if it has spread into the body.

   "This is an exciting time," said Jill O'Donnell-Tormey, executive director of
the Cancer Research Institute, a New York organization that funds cancer vaccine
research. "We're certainly further along than we have been for a long time."

   Unlike traditional vaccines, such as those for mumps and measles, that keep
disease from occurring in the first place, cancer vaccines are intended for
people who already have cancer and have had surgery or other standard treatment.

   The vaccines work by training the body's immune system to scout out and kill
any remaining rebel cells and to stand watch against recurring tumor growth.

   "If you could add another weapon to the weapons we already have [against
cancer], we might end up with better therapy," said Dr. Mario Sznol, who
oversees cancer vaccine development at the National Cancer Institute.

   Researchers believe that vaccines, which target cancer cells, could someday
be used instead of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for some cancers.

   "The appeal is that vaccines generally are not toxic, whereas chemotherapy
often is," said Dorothee Herlyn, a Wistar scientist. She has developed two
approaches for colo-rectal cancer vaccines, including one being tested at
Jefferson by Dr. Edith Mitchell.

   Because chemotherapy kills many healthy cells along with cancerous ones, it
may cause unpleasant side effects like hair loss and nausea.

   The notion of devising a vaccine against cancer dates to the 1890s, when New
York surgeon William Coley was trying to figure out why tumors were disappearing
in some cancer patients who also had a bacterial infection. He surmised that
whatever was fighting the infection was also going after the cancer. To test the
theory, he injected cancer patients with bacterial toxins, a practice that
continued into the 1930s with some reported success.

   In today's experiments, researchers at hospital laboratories and
biotechnology companies are mixing various ingredients to figure out what works
best to rev up the immune system and outsmart tumors.

   Unlike a virus or bacteria that the body easily recognizes as a foreign
invader, cancer cells are not all that different from normal ones and thus can
escape the body's usual defenses. The immune system must be taught to recognize
cancer cells as the enemy.

   The vaccine works by sending a loud message to the immune system that it
should take notice of cells with similar characteristics and mount a defense.
That defense includes the body's armament of white blood cells known as T cells,
as well as antibodies.

   Some researchers, like the ones at Jefferson who worked with Prolejko's
cancer, use whole tumors from patients to tailor-make individualized vaccines.
Others are concocting vaccines from bits and pieces of protein or carbohydrate
found on the surface of tumor cells. The vaccines are typically bolstered with
substances that are known to beef up the immune response.

   Some of the newest entries into the field are DNA vaccines. Penn researcher
David Weiner has come up with a way to inject genetic material for a particular
tumor protein directly into muscle, setting into motion a powerful immune
response.

   Mice given a DNA vaccine for a type of lymphoma did not develop the disease
after being injected with 3 million tumor cells, Weiner said. He and three Penn
doctors have begun testing the approach on people with cutaneous T-cell
lymphoma.

   Some of the most promising work focuses on melanoma. Scientists have a
particular interest in the disease because its incidence is growing at a steady
rate, with more than 38,000 cases expected to be diagnosed this year.

   David Berd, a Jefferson oncologist, has been experimenting since 1989 with a
vaccine for patients whose melanoma has spread to the lymph nodes. So far, about
120 patients have gotten a series of shots made from their own tumors. The tumor
cells are irradiated just enough so they can't reproduce. They are also treated
with a chemical, dinitrophenyl (DNP), that subtly changes the cells so the
immune system clearly recognizes them as foreign.

   The vaccine involves a series of shots in the arm. The only side effect, it
seems, is a bit of soreness, itching or reddening at the injection site.

   Berd is encouraged by the results, which he will present next month in
Philadelphia at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

   Typically, the five-year survival rate for people with melanoma that has
spread to lymph nodes is 20 to 25 percent. He will report that the four-year
survival rate for his melanoma vaccine is 58 percent.

   Still, the vaccine's effectiveness has yet to be more rigorously tested in a
controlled study in which half the participants get the vaccine and half do not.

   Such a study will get under way soon with a melanoma vaccine developed by Dr.
Philip Livingston, a researcher at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New
York. The study, which will involve more than 800 patients in the United States
and Canada, is a Phase 3 trial, the last step before a company seeks the federal
Food and Drug Administration's approval to bring a new drug or vaccine to
market.

   Rather than using whole tumor cells, Livingston's vaccine targets a
particular marker on tumor cells - in this case a carbohydrate molecule. Some
researchers believe such an approach will trigger a better immune response and
is far more practical than crafting individualized vaccines for every patient.

   Livingston reported on the vaccine last week at a national cancer research
meeting in Washington. Smaller studies have shown that the vaccine does
stimulate the production of antibodies. The large study about to begin, he said,
should answer the question of whether the vaccine can "kill circulating tumor
cells and keep new metastases from coming on."

   Such an effective assault on cancer has been shown to work in some animal
experiments.

   Earlier this month, Habib Fakhrai, a gene therapist at the University of
California, Los Angeles, and a team of researchers reported dramatic results
with a vaccine against a deadly type of brain cancer. The vaccine was so
effective that even when the rats were injected with a massive dose of cancerous
cells, they did not develop new tumors.

   Fakhrai believes that certain tumors are particularly sneaky because they
secrete a substance called tumor growth factor beta that acts like a shield to
hide them from the body's immune defenses. Fakhrai's vaccine is designed to
break down the shield.

   Fakhrai said he has gotten approval from the National Institutes of Health to
test the vaccine in people with a type of brain tumor called glioblastoma and
now is seeking the go-ahead from the FDA.

   Herlyn, of the Wistar Institute, says that while the vaccines being developed
today are not designed to prevent cancer, she envisions the day when vaccines
could be used for people who have a genetic predisposition for a certain type of
cancer.

   "Maybe 10, 20, 50 years from now one may vaccinate people against breast
cancer," she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO (2)
1. Mary Prolejko gets a shot of tumor cells, prepared so they don't reproduce.
Doctors hope the cells keep her cancer from returning. (The Philadelphia
Inquirer, REBECCA BARGER)
2. David Berd, an oncologist at Jefferson who has been experimenting with
vaccines for melanoma since 1989, and Ellen Bloome, a nurse. (The Philadelphia
Inquirer, REBECCA BARGER)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2832 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            April 25, 1996 Thursday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-3:7,8; B-5:1

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: UCSD scientist probes gene therapy to cure commercial shellfish

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Gene therapy for shellfish? Could a technology that's been touted as the
medicine of the 21st century be the cure for what ails clams, mussels, abalone
and oysters, too? A UCSD scientist thinks so.

   And she has designed the first successful technique for delivering
therapeutic genes into these commercially important aquatic creatures. In the
open ocean where these shellfish are farmed inside cages and nets, they are
susceptible to viral and bacterial infections that can destroy large herds of
them and that even can be passed along to people who eat these fish uncooked. It
is difficult to deliver antibiotics or other medicines to shellfish, so UCSD
pediatrician and molecular biologist Jane Burns and Thomas Chen, a marine
biologist at the University of Connecticut, turned to the gene therapy approach.
They engineered a harmless virus so that it can penetrate cells in the shellfish
and deliver a useful gene the researchers can put inside the virus. In
experiments reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the
researchers implanted a gene into surf clams, the small shellfish commonly found
in the surf.

   The gene was passed on to the surf clams' offspring -- meaning it had become
an inherited quality that would pass through the generations. Burns said others
had considered such genetic interventions before, but until now "no one had a
tool to put the genes in with." The experiment was done with a so-called marker
gene that provides no benefit but allows researchers to easily study its course
in the clams. The next step will involve transferring a beneficial gene that
could fight off disease.

   And for that, scientists will turn to insects. Other researchers have shown
that a molecule called cecropin, taken from fruit flies, is effective in
attaching to and disabling one of the primary bacteria that infect shellfish.

   The gene that makes this molecule would be transferred into the clams. This
approach should in effect engineer immunity against the bacterial disease, Burns
explained. A privately owned San Diego biotechnology company, Pangenix, has a
license to tailor the technique now for commercial use, she said. To develop the
newly reported gene delivery system, Burns changed a specific type of virus, a
retrovirus that typically infects only mammals, so that it would attach to fish
cells, which have different molecular structures on their surfaces. Scientists
at the French National Center for Scientific Research in Montpellier are working
now to test the same approach in mussels and oysters, she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2833 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                     April 24, 1996 Wednesday FIRST EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Research team unveils anti-cancer genetic 'time bomb' vs. tumors

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LASALANDRA

BODY:

   WASHINGTON - A genetic "time bomb" was unveiled yesterday by cancer
researchers who say it is able to destroy tumor cells without harming healthy
ones.

   The gene bomb is configured to explode only when triggered by a specific
event, such as when it runs into a protein made by a cancer cell, said
researcher Luis da Costa of Johns Hopkins University.

   "If the cell is normal, it doesn't go off," he said during a news briefing at
the annual meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research.

   The bomb, which has only been tested so far in a test tube, is made of a
bacterial enzyme that turns toxic only when detonated.

   While it will kill a few healthy cells that may be located near the cancerous
ones, the bomb will not harm healthy cells which are not located near the sick
ones.

   When the gene bomb was inserted into lung cancer cells in a test tube, it was
1,000 times more deadly than it was against healthy cells.

   The gene bomb also gets around a universal problem in gene therapy: Only a
small percentage of cancer cells will absorb outside genes.

   But because of a "bystander" effect, only a few cells need to take up the
bomb genes to get rid of a tumor, because when they explode they will kill the
tumor cells around them as well. Da Costa said tests on animals will be
conducted in a few months, but conceded it may be years before it's tried on
humans.

   The biggest roadblock is finding a good way to get the bomb to the cells, he
said.

   "Its easier to deliver it in a tube than in a living organism," he said.

   Otherwise, the strategy has proved effective.

   "We've demonstrated that it can work," he said.

   To build the gene bomb, the researchers first built an artificial gene to
function as the trigger and selected a second gene to serve as the explosive
agent.

   Now, the scientists are trying to determine if the bomb will have the same
explosive effect on breast, pancreatic and colon cancer cells.

   "Theoretically, any time we find proteins specific to sick cells, we could
use this to kill them," da Costa said.

   In another development announced yesterday, researchers at the Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia said they have found that a gene linked to lung
cancer, identified earlier this year, also is abnormal in breast cancer and
other types of tumors.

   The evidence indicates that mutations in the gene, FHIT, may be the first in
a series of events leading to the development of several types of cancer, said
Dr. Carlo Croce.

   He said the gene is unusually fragile, which makes it especially susceptible
to any number of cancer-causing agents, such as viruses and environmental
carcinogens.

   Getting to the gene early with corrective measures may be a way to stop
cancer before it starts, he said. he said.

   "Maybe we can do something to block it," he said. "At least now we know an
early target."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996


                             2834 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

              April 24, 1996, WEDNESDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Say Gene Bomb Zeros In on Cancerous Cells

BYLINE: BY DANIEL Q. HANEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the first genetic
time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their cover by
producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use. It
is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, then tailor medicines
that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa of Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   Da Costa described the innovation Tuesday at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Cancer Research. A report is also being published next
week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   While researchers have talked for years about using gene therapy to cure
cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do you
get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   However, da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb
may kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well.

   In da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability.

   "A variety of different cancer proteins could be used to pull the trigger,"
he said. "This strategy could be used to treat a wide variety of cancers."

   It might even work for viral diseases, too, such as AIDS.

   In his test tube experiments, da Costa worked on lung cancer cells that have
a defective version of a gene called p53. This gene ordinarily suppresses cancer
from growing, and it malfunctions in about half of all cancers.

   In this case, the bad p53 was the trigger. The gene bomb sat quietly unless
it encountered this protein. The warhead was a gene that produced a bacterial
enzyme called purine nucleoside phosphorylase. This enzyme turns a harmless
compound into a toxic, cell-killing chemical.

   In the experiment, the gene bomb worked well. Cells with mutant p53 died at a
1,000 times higher rate than those without it. The next step in the coming
months will be to test the approach on lab animals.

GRAPHIC:  ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996


                             2835 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                April 24, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C;  Page 10;  Column 4;  National Desk;  Health Page

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: New Gene Bomb Aims to Kill Cancers

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

BODY:

   Scientists fighting cancer said today that they had engineered what they call
the first genetic time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they produce
telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the healthy tissue around them.

    The idea is still being studied in the test tube and is probably years away
from human use. It is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually
lead to a cancer treatment remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but many innocent bystanders as well. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, and then tailor
medicines that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the inner workings of the cancer cells looking for
proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa, a doctoral candidate at Johns Hopkins University, who described the
innovation at the annual meeting of the American Association for Cancer
Research. "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing
happens. We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   A report on the work is also being published next week in The Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences.

   While researchers have talked for years about using gene therapy to cure
cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: how do you
get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   But Mr. da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb may
kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well.

   In Mr. da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability. "A variety of different cancer proteins could be used to pull the
trigger," he said. "This strategy could be used to treat a wide variety of
cancers."

   In his test tube experiments, Mr. da Costa worked on lung cancer cells that
had a defective version of a gene called p53. This gene ordinarily suppresses
cancer from growing, and it malfunctions in about half of all cancers.

   In this case, the defective p53 was the trigger. The gene bomb sat quietly
unless it encountered this protein. The warhead was a gene that produced a
bacterial enzyme called purine nucleoside phosphorylase. This enzyme turns a
harmless compound into a toxic, cell-killing chemical.

   In the experiment, the gene bomb worked well. Cells with mutant p53 died at a
rate 1,000 times as high as those without it. The next step in coming months
will be to test the approach on laboratory animals.

   Will it work?

   "It has good potential," said Dr. Roy A. Jensen of Vanderbilt University.
"The key will be the correct vector" -- the missile that carries the bomb into
cells -- "and identifying appropriate genes to target. It deserves
investigation, but it's too early to handicap it right now."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996


                             2836 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                      APRIL 24, 1996 Wednesday PM EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: NEW TOOL IN WAR ON CANCER< GENE BOMB THERAPY BELIEVED PROMISING

BYLINE: Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the first genetic
time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their cover by
producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use. It
is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, then tailor medicines
that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa, of Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   Da Costa described the innovation yesterday at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Cancer Research. A report is also being published next
week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   While researchers have talked excitedly for years about using gene therapy to
cure cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do
you get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   However, da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb
may kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well - in effect,
shrapnel.

   In da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability.

   "A variety of different cancer proteins could be used to pull the trigger,"
he said. "This strategy could be used to treat a wide variety of cancers."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002


                             2837 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                           April 24, 1996, Wednesday

SECTION: Pg. 15, Part A

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON - Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call

SOURCE: Associated Press


BODY: WASHINGTON - Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the
first genetic time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their
cover by producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use. It
is notable for its novelty, but whether it eventually will lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too.

   Many scientists have been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors
unique, then tailor medicines that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa, a research fellow at Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   Da Costa described the innovation Tuesday at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Cancer Research. A report also is being published next
week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   While researchers have talked for years about using gene therapy to cure
cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do you
get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   medicine research study genetics cell genes

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998


                             2838 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    April 24, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Researchers develop gene bomb to target, destroy cancer cells

SOURCE: An Associated Press Report

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the first genetic
time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their cover by
producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use. It
is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, then tailor medicines
that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa of Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   Da Costa described the innovation Tuesday at the annual meeting of the
American Association for Cancer Research. A report is also being published next
week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   While researchers have talked excitedly for years about using gene therapy to
cure cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do
you get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   However, da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb
may kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well - in effect,
shrapnel.

   In da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability.

   "A variety of different cancer proteins could be used to pull the trigger,"
he said. "This strategy could be used to treat a wide variety of cancers."

   It might even work for viral diseases, too, such as AIDS.

   "It has good potential," said Roy A. Jensen of Vanderbilt University. "The
key will be the correct vector" - the missile that carries the bomb into cells -
"and identifying appropriate genes to target. It deserves investigation, but
it's too early to handicap it right now."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996


                             2839 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                        April 24, 1996 Wednesday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: GENE BOMB ENGINEERED TO DESTROY CANCER

BYLINE: By DANIEL Q. HANEY AP science writer

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the first genetic
time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their cover by
producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal, healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use.
It is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, then tailor medicines
that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa, a research fellow at Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   While researchers have talked excitedly for years about using gene therapy to
cure cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do
you get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   However, da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb
may kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well - in effect,
shrapnel.

   In da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability.

   It might even work for viral diseases, too, such as AIDS.

   In his test tube experiments, da Costa worked on lung cancer cells that have
a defective version of a gene called p53. This gene ordinarily suppresses cancer
from growing, and it malfunctions in about half of all cancers.

   In this case, the bad p53 was the trigger. The gene bomb sat quietly unless
it encountered this protein. The warhead was a gene that produced a bacterial
enzyme called purine nucleoside phosphorylase. This enzyme turns a harmless
compound into a toxic, cell-killing chemical.

   In the experiment, the gene bomb worked well. Cells with mutant p53 died at a
thousand times higher rate than those without it. The next step in the coming
months will be to test the approach on lab animals.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1996


                             2840 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                        April 24, 1996 Wednesday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: GENE BOMB ENGINEERED TO DESTROY CANCER

BYLINE: By DANIEL Q. HANEY AP science writer

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists fighting cancer have engineered what they call the first genetic
time bomb, set to go off inside tumor cells when they blow their cover by
producing telltale proteins.

   The approach is intended to deliver its killing force to cancer cells with
pinpoint accuracy while sparing the normal, healthy tissue around them.

   The idea is still in the test tube and probably years away from human use.
It is notable for its novelty, but whether it will eventually lead to a cancer
cure, as its developers hope, remains to be seen.

   Ordinary chemotherapy uses a scattershot approach: Toxic medicines kill not
only cancer cells but plenty of innocent bystanders, too. Many scientists have
been trying to identify landmarks that make tumors unique, then tailor medicines
that zero in on them.

   The gene bomb scans the innermost workings of the renegade cancer cells
looking for proteins that only they make.

   "As with any bomb, it has an explosive part and a trigger," said Luis da
Costa, a research fellow at Johns Hopkins University.

   "You can put this bomb into a cell, and if it is normal, nothing happens," he
said. "We engineered the trigger so it can only be pulled by a cancer protein.
This will make the bomb go off and kill the cancer cell."

   While researchers have talked excitedly for years about using gene therapy to
cure cancer and other ills, they are confounded by one serious drawback: How do
you get the killer genes into the cells you want to eliminate?

   One strategy is to use viruses as Trojan horses to carry them in. But cancer
cells seem especially hard to penetrate. In the clump of tumor cells, only a few
may absorb the transplanted genes. Even if these die, the others survive and
spread.

   However, da Costa's approach may help sidestep this problem, too. The bomb
may kill not only the cell it blows up, but those around it as well - in effect,
shrapnel.

   In da Costa's view, another beauty of the idea is its potentially wide
applicability.

   It might even work for viral diseases, too, such as AIDS.

   In his test tube experiments, da Costa worked on lung cancer cells that have
a defective version of a gene called p53. This gene ordinarily suppresses cancer
from growing, and it malfunctions in about half of all cancers.

   In this case, the bad p53 was the trigger. The gene bomb sat quietly unless
it encountered this protein. The warhead was a gene that produced a bacterial
enzyme called purine nucleoside phosphorylase. This enzyme turns a harmless
compound into a toxic, cell-killing chemical.

   In the experiment, the gene bomb worked well. Cells with mutant p53 died at a
thousand times higher rate than those without it. The next step in the coming
months will be to test the approach on lab animals.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996


                             2841 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 23, 1996, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: ANIMAL RIGHTS GROUP TARGETS PITT AIDS RESEARCHER

BYLINE: BYRON SPICE, SCIENCE EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

BODY:


   An animal rights organization says a University of Pittsburgh researcher
should be blocked from performing additional baboon-to-human cell transplants to
treat AIDS because she withheld information from a Food and Drug Administration
panel.

   People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals says Dr. Suzanne Ildstad didn't
tell an FDA panel last summer that a rat-to-mouse bone marrow transplant failed
to show that the transplanted rat cells could fight disease in the mouse. Those
results, the group says, would cast doubt that a baboon-to-human experiment
would work.

   Ildstad denies withholding any results. And Dr. Philip Noguchi, FDA director
of cellular and gene therapies and head of the panel reviewing Ildstad's
experiment, yesterday said the results of the study in question would not have
significantly altered the panel's conclusions.

   Consensus on the panel, in fact, was that the experiment would not work,
Noguchi said.

   On the other hand, he added, ''No one could say for certain that it would not
work.'' Given that the patient had few other options and understood the risk,
the panel approved the experiment after satisfying itself that the public was
not endan-gered.

   Four months after the transplant, the recipient, Jeff Getty of Oakland,
Calif., reportedly is feeling well. He shows no signs yet of being sickened by
any virus transmitted from the baboon, Ildstad said yesterday.

   But Steven Simmons, a New York City man with AIDS, maintains that Getty and
other potential recipients of baboon bone marrow are victims who are being
exploited by Ildstad.

   ''The AIDS community is really divided on this issue,'' said Simmons,
contending the scientific basis for the transplants is weak.

   ''They wish we were divided,'' countered Getty, noting PETA's general
opposition to using animals in medical research. ''PETA is way out of sync with
the AIDS community. I think they're probably disappointed that I'm doing so
well.''

   Tests performed a month after Getty's transplant showed no evidence that the
baboon marrow cells - which are resistant to the AIDS virus - had engrafted in
Getty. Ildstad said at the time, however, that she couldn't rule out the
possibility of some engraftment. Tests continue, but Ildstad said she and her
co-investigators will not release further results until later this year.

   Ildstad said she believes there is reason to try the experiment again. Before
that could occur, she and her colleagues would have to apply to the FDA for
permission.

   Noguchi said the FDA would consider the results of the first transplant in
evaluating whether there was still an outside chance that a second transplant
might work.

   PETA suggests that Ildstad failed to tell review boards about an experiment
she performed with Dr. Peter Doherty, an immunologist at St. Jude's Hospital in
Memphis, Tenn.

   Ildstad transplanted rat marrow cells to mice, then Doherty infected the mice
with influenza. Doherty found that mice whose immune systems had been totally
replaced by rat cells were unable to fight the infection and died.

   PETA officials, based on a January report in The New York Times, said that
was a critical experiment that Ildstad should have reported to review boards
considering the AIDS experiment.

   Ildstad said preliminary results of her experiment with Doherty were reported
at public forums before the FDA panel last summer.

   The results of the study, which she is still analyzing, are being
misinterpreted, she contended. The fact that mice with only rat immune cells
died was not a failure but was what she expected.

   The whole point of the experiment, she said, was to show whether mice that
only had part of their immune systems replaced by rat cells would be better
equipped to fight off viral infections than those whose systems were totally
replaced.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996


                             2842 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1996 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        April 22, 1996 Monday 2D EDITION

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. F-02

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Runners' very-low-fat diet doesn't equate with endurance

BYLINE: Diane Eicher, HEALTH

BODY:

   If you're thinking about or already training to run or race-walk in the
Bolder Boulder next month, or perhaps planning to do a longer race event this
summer, don't forget diet as part of your pre-event preparations.

   And don't be misled into thinking that going low fat is the nutritional
pathway to the finish line.

   Researchers at the University at Buffalo have showed that trained athletes
who eat a very-low-fat diet may be hindering their performance. When 25
long-distance runners were put on a diet of 15 percent fat, they didn't have
enough calories to meet the energy needs of their training regimen, and their
HDL cholesterol levels went down, indicating implications for cardiovascular
risk factors.

   But when they went on a diet of 30 percent fat - considered a moderate amount
and what is recommended for the average person - their endurance time increased
and they had more muscle strength after an exhausting run.

   Only half the people in the study were able to raise their dietary fat to the
45-percent level, but their endurance time went up a similar amount. Their
levels of lactic acid were even lower than those on the low- or medium-fat
diets, indicating an increase in energy reserve and more efficient energy
metabolism, said the researchers.

   Contrary to what athletes might fear, their measurements of body fat, total
cholesterol, blood pressure and heart rate didn't go up when they started
consuming more fat; in fact, all levels stayed the same.

   "The distance runners in this study didn't have any negative effects on
performance, nutrition or health on the high-fat diet," said Peter Horvath, an
associate professor of nutrition and a lead researcher.

   "If you want the calories necessary to do high-intensity training, you need
to liberate yourself from a low-fat diet," he said.

   The study applied to men and women ages 18 to 53 who ran an average of 40
miles a week. Before the study, the runners, on average, ate diets consisting of
about 20 percent fat.

   An additional study at the University at Buffalo showed that competitive
distance runners who insist on a very-low-fat diet also may compromise their
ability to ward off infection. Those on a 15 percent diet had fewer white blood
cells, or leukocytes, the body's infection fighters, than did runners who spent
a month on a moderate-fat (30 percent) diet.

   Tuneup for business

   Tell the boss those earphones blasting Hootie & the Blowfish into your brain
are helping you be a better worker: A new study says that listening to music at
work can increase productivity, mood and satisfaction. The University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign studied 256 workers in 32 different jobs in a
retail company, and found that headset wearers showed improvement in all three
areas. The biggest benefits occurred in those with relatively simple jobs who
worked alone, like data-entry clerks, but those doing analytic work like
auditing also benefited.

   Day of Caring

   Dottie Wham, a state senator and breast-cancer survivor, is keynote speaker
for AMC Cancer Research Center's annual Day of Caring, from 8 a.m. to 3:15 p.m.
April 29 at the Hyatt Regency Denver Tech Center. Workshops on topics including
research, treatment, detection, gene therapy and women's personal stories will
be followed by lunch and a fashion show featuring cancer survivors. Cost is $
45, but a number of scholarships are available, thanks to corporate donations
from AMC, Founders Funds and KVOD. For information on the event or the
scholarships, call 239-3415.

   Medical trials

   Several studies in the metro area are looking for volunteers:

   The University of Colorado at Boulder is studying whether neuro-electric
therapy will help alleviate chronic headaches. Volunteers should be over 18, not
pregnant, willing to participate for six months, and have a letter from their
doctor confirming a diagnosis of headache. Eight visits to the lab in Boulder
will be required, and participants will be asked to leave a deposit of $ 250 for
a neuro-electric instrument. The deposit is refundable. Call 469-6113.

   Children ages 4-12 who've been diagnosed with asthma are needed to test a new
experimental asthma medication; call Dr. William Silvers or Carmen Laronn at
740-0998.

   Both Spanish- and English-speaking women who've had breast or cervical cancer
are needed by the Latin American Research and Service Agency (LARASA) for a
focus group discussion. Participants will receive $ 20; call Elva at LARASA at
722-5150.

   Calendar

   Call "Doc-On-Call" from 7 to 8:30 p.m. tomorrow at 756-8622 to speak with
local rheumatologists David Collier or Woodruff Emlen about arthritis issues,
during the Arthritis Foundation's monthly call-in service. Outside the metro
area, call 1-800-475-6447.

   Free spirometry tests to help detect lung disease will be from 10 a.m to
12:30 p.m. tomorrow at Norwest Bank-Southglenn, 2350 E. Arapahoe Road; call
Shelli at 398-1873.

   A free introductory workshop to "The Healing Power of Conscious Breathing" by
Luana Veo will be from 6:30 to 8 p.m. Wednesday at Wild Oats Market, 1111 S.
Washington St.; call 733-6201.

   Dr. Robert "Chip" Schooley, one of the country's foremost AIDS researchers,
will speak at 7 p.m. Wednesday in Denison Auditorium on the University of
Colorado Health Sciences Center campus; call 270-3131 for a reservation.

   Erase the Stigma is the Colorado Alliance for the Mentally Ill's annual
conference Saturday and Sunday at the Raintree Plaza Conference Center in
Longmont, including a panel headed by Dr. Susan Blumenthal, deputy assistant
secretary for Women's Health, on stigma in public policy and federal funding.
Cost is $ 55 for both days for CAMI members; $ 75 and $ 55 for others.

   Call CAMI in Denver at 321-3104 during the morning on weekdays.

   WalkAmerica, to benefit the March of Dimes, will begin at 8:45 a.m. Saturday
at the Denver Performing Arts Complex at Speer Boulevard and Champa Street and
continue through LoDo, by Coors Field, along the South Platte River and Elitch's
and back to the starting point for a picnic. Call 692-0011.

   Free skin-cancer screenings will be offered from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday at
Lutheran Medical's Center radiation oncology facility; for appointments, call
425-2929.

   Rose Women's Center Fetal and Newborn Loss Program will have its annual
memorial service for families who have lost a pregnancy or baby at 1 p.m. Sunday
in the hospital, 4567 E. Ninth Ave.; call 320-2864.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996


                             2843 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                      April 20, 1996 Saturday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: RESEARCHER SEES BENEFITS, RISKS OF GENETIC MAPPING

BYLINE: By BRIAN E. ALBRECHT; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

BODY:

   The promise and pitfalls of essentially writing an owners' manual for the
human race were explored yesterday for a genetically defective City Club
audience.

   That audience - all of us, for that matter - have disorders imprinted into
our genetic code, according to the speaker, Dr. Francis S. Collins, director of
the National Center for Human Genome Research in Washington, D.C.

   "We all have glitches ... probably four or five pretty bad ones, and 20 or 30
not so great ones," Collins said.

   When these glitches are used to deny medical care or health insurance, they
become part of the ethical, legal and social issues currently being studied
along with the genome project's primary mission - mapping and identifying each
of the 100,000 human genes to determine the exact sequence of the 3 billion
nucleotides forming the building blocks of human DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).

   The federally funded, 15-year effort that started in 1990 is a daunting task
Collins once described as the equivalent of trying to find a burned-out light
bulb by checking every house in the United States.

   But once complete, scientists will be able to identify specific genes
responsible for such hereditary diseases as diabetes, muscular dystrophy, and
cystic fibrosis. With that knowledge, preventative measures or even genetic
therapy to correct defects could be possible.

   The science "will have profound consequences for the human race in terms of
medical advances," Collins said. "We are engaged, basically, in reading our own
blueprint."

   He added there could be other pluses for U.S. economic competitiveness in
development of new drugs, tests and therapies, and reduced health care costs.

   Yet Collins also noted, "To be completely honest with you, while this is
enormously powerful and having much promise to alleviate human suffering ... it
also has some thorny issues, and we are not yet in a situation where we can
assure the public that this information might not be used to injure them."

   Discrimination against those genetically predisposed to certain diseases, in
medical care, health insurance and employment are possible drawbacks, Collins
said. Other issues include patient confidentiality and privacy when the means
for mass genetic-screening becomes possible, he added.

   Five percent of the project's $100 million-plus annual budget is devoted to
study of potential ethical and legal pitfalls, Collins said. "We're at the point
where scholarship has done a great job of identifying the issues and potential
solutions, but now legislative solutions need to kick in."

   Congress currently is reviewing health insurance reform legislation that
would prohibit use of genetic information to deny coverage, Collins said. But he
also noted there will be an increasing need for public understanding of this
science and its ramifications.

   Collins is confident the necessary protections will be developed. "Although
it won't be easy, and will probably be, at times, contentious, difficult and
painful, we'll come up with some consensus we can act upon," he said.

   Besides, he added with a grin, "There's nothing like a real dilemma to force
you to make a decision."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1996


                             2844 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  April 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
BRISTOL-MYERS IN ANOTHER BIOTECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT

BYLINE: Dow Jones

BODY:

   The Bristol-Myers Squibb Company said yesterday that it planned to make a $10
million investment in the Somatix Therapy Corporation, a biotechnology company,
bringing its total investment in the company to $20 million. In exchange,
Bristol-Myers, the pharmaceutical concern, has first rights to collaborate with
Somatix on any cancer products it develops. Somatix, which is based in Alameda,
Calif., is developing gene-therapy products to treat cancer and Parkinson's
disease. Bristol-Myers, which is based in New York, made an initial investment
of $10 million in Somatix last August. Somatix's stock fell 50 cents yesterday,
to close at $7.625 a share on the Nasdaq stock market.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1996


                             2845 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                   April 15, 1996 Monday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: GOOD NEWS FOR KIDS WITH DOWN SYNDROME THEY FIGHT LEUKEMIA WITH MORE
SUCCESS

BYLINE: PATRICIA ANSTETT Free Press Medical Writer

BODY:

   Children with Down syndrome have a higher risk of developing a deadly type of
leukemia, but they also have a greater chance than other patients with the
disease of being treated successfully, a Detroit study published today has
found.

   Dr. Jeffrey Taub and researchers at the Detroit Medical Center reported today
that children with both Down syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were 10
times more likely to benefit from chemotherapy than other children with the same
kind of leukemia. Down syndrome children also were found to survive at twice the
rate.

   For his study, Taub compared the response to chemotherapy of three children
with AML and Down syndrome, as compared to 18 children who had AML, but not
Down.

   The results, reported in the journal Blood, have since been replicated in
other studies, said Taub, assistant professor of pediatrics at DMC and the
Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute in Detroit.

   The findings are significant because children with Down syndrome have not
always been treated aggressively for AML, in part because chemotherapy drugs
have many side effects. About 35 percent of children with AML are alive five
years later.

   Now that doctors know these children fare the best, they might treat more of
them aggressively, Taub said.

   Down syndrome is characterized by short stature, a flattened facial profile,
mental retardation and, about half the time, heart problems. These children have
a 10-20 percent greater risk of developing AML.

   Taub hopes the research will lead to improving treatments for all AML
patients, perhaps through gene therapy that might enhance the effectiveness of
chemotherapy.

   ***

NOTES: SEE ALSO METRO EDITION PAGE 5A

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2846 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                      April 15, 1996 Monday METRO EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN WITH DOWN SYNDROME FIGHT LEUKEMIA BETTER

BYLINE: PATRICIA ANSTETT Free Press Medical Writer

BODY:

   Children with Down syndrome have a higher risk of developing a deadly type of
leukemia, but they also have a greater chance than other patients of being
treated successfully, a Detroit study published today has found.

   Dr. Jeffrey Taub and researchers at the Detroit Medical Center reported today
that all 12 children with Down syndrome who developed acute myeloid leukemia
(AML) went into remission after treatment with a leading chemotherapy drug,
compared to only 28 percent of 285 AML patients without Down syndrome who
received the same drug.

   The results, reported in the journal Blood, have since been replicated in
other studies, said Taub, assistant professor of pediatrics at DMC and the
Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute in Detroit.

   The findings are significant because children with Down syndrome have not
always been treated aggressively for AML, because it is among the deadlier
childhood cancers. About 35 percent of children with AML are alive five years
later.

   Now that doctors know that these children fare the best they might treat more
of them aggressively, Taub said.

   Down syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by short stature, a
flattened facial profile, mild to moderate mental retardation and, about half
the time, heart problems. In addition, these children have a 10 percent-20
percent greater risk of developing AML, usually in the first two years of life.
Symptoms include fatigue, anemia, fevers, bruises and bleeding.

   Taub hopes that the research will lead to improving treatments for all AML
patients, perhaps through gene therapy treatments that might enhance the
effectiveness of chemotherapy.

   ***

NOTES: SEE ALSO METRO FINAL EDITION PAGE 1B

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2847 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                      April 14, 1996, Sunday, Home Edition

SECTION: Los Angeles Times Magazine; Page 10; Times Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: NOW WHERE DO WE GO?

BODY:


   Laurie Garrett assesses the importance of the Human Genetic Project by taking
the opinions of scientists who get funding from the project and representatives
of companies that intend to market products derived from the research ("Do We
Really Want to Know All This" March 3).

   The article implies that one can "decipher" a gene simply by determining the
sequence of nucleotides that compose the gene. In fact, determining the sequence
is relatively easy; understanding the function of the protein specified by the
gene is much harder. Knowing a protein's function does not in itself mean that
one can use genetic intervention to cure a disease in an adult. Epilepsy
provides one of many examples of why the role of genetics in medicine is
necessarily limited.

   Ari Berkowitz, Research Fellow

   Division of Biology, Caltech

   Pasadena

   Garrett responds: The Correspondent seems to have missed that, in the
article's conclusions, I raised and concurred with all his points. Behind both
the legitimate enthusiasm and the hype of human genome research lie four basic
obstacles: (1) translating raw genetic data into useful protein information, (2)
development of viable means of gene therapy, (3) discriminating between the
relative contributions of genetics and environment and (4) protecting the
sanctity and privacy of individual DNA information, even in the absence of
solutions to the other three hurdles.


   *

   When we go shopping, we want the biggest and most unblemished apple, the TV
set with the sharpest picture and the safest, most reliable and most attractive
car. So why not, when we go "shopping" for a baby, don't we get one that is
relatively disease-free and has the features we want--which will be possible in
the near future as result of genetic selection? It sure would beat the
unpredictable risk-taking and sometimes agonizing present-day nature of
childbirth.

   Kenneth L. Zimmerman

   Huntington Beach

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996


                             2848 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                         Copyright 1996 Star Tribune
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                         April 14, 1996, Metro Edition

SECTION: News; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Fair spotlights junior scientists

BYLINE: Maureen M. Smith; Staff Writer

BODY:

    Christopher Voss, 17, has a thing about fish - catching them, eating them
and studying them scientifically.

    His research on acid rain pollution and the yellow perch was one of three
winning projects Saturday at the Minnesota Academy of Science State Fair. The
junior at Anoka High School spent hundreds of hours after school and on weekends
hatching his findings in labs at the University of Minnesota to study how lake
pollution affects the perch's growth.

    "It's got to be a personal thirst for knowledge," said Voss, who has
presented research projects on fish, bait, and more fish since fourth grade. "I
like to fish during the summertime. But I hate studying electricity."

    For most of about 300 entrants, the fair is a chance to show off their
experiments.  More than 60 awards were presented Saturday. Neatly drawn diagrams
and photographs lined the displays of student projects on popcorn, pesticides,
pulley systems, sunglasses, rubber gloves, river otters, vaccines, rocket
engines and more.

    "This gives young people a chance to go beyond textbook answers," said
George Kubik, a science fair judge and chief of strategic planning for the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service. "All of a sudden, we see this young person emerging
with a brilliant idea that kind of challenges the status quo and that a lot of
other great minds haven't thought of yet."

    Students formulate their own research ideas, hypotheses, scientific methods
and determine conclusions. One tested how well rubber gloves stood up to
bacteria, another invented a way to neutralize explosive ammunition.

    Voss and the other winners will travel to Tucson, Ariz., in May to present
their projects to an International Science and Engineering Fair. The winning
projects include research on gene therapy by William Greenleaf, a sophomore at
Mayo High School in Rochester, and a team project on water quality by Michelle
Trucke and Scot Surdez, seniors at Bagley Secondary School.

    Megan Roth, 16, decided to create a vaccine for the Epstein- Barr virus that
causes mononucleosis (which she suffered with in 1995) .

    Working independently, Roth obtained the virus DNA from a Harvard researcher
and developed a potential DNA vaccine.

    "I really want to test it to see if it will actually work," said Roth, a
junior at Lake Crystal-Wellcome Memorial High School. She has done research on
the immune system and hopes to find a lab and funding to complete her project.
"It's such new technology, and it's going to be important in the future."

    Like Voss, the fish expert, and Roth, the DNA vaccine designer, many
students who enter the fair have aspirations for careers in medicine or science.

    Rachel Hoppe, 14, a ninth-grader at Morris Area High School, researched the
effects of nitrogen fertilizer runoff on frogs and tadpoles. And she got some
help from her dad conducting experiments in the basement.

    "It's hands-on work versus reading, listening and typical classroom stuff,"
said her father, David Hoppe, a biology professor at the University of
Minnesota, Morris. "They form a hypothesis and test it."

    Popcorn was the subject of a study by Aaron Raymond, a seventh-grader at
Willow Creek Middle School in Rochester. He determined the optimum moisture for
popping conditions by soaking the popcorn in water for various lengths of time.

    Comparing sunglasses of various quality and prices helped Kristopher Lee,
13, a seventh-grader at Murray Junior High School in St. Paul, determine whether
cost correlates with protection from ultraviolet rays. He exposed camera film to
sunlight through the lenses.

    "You have to watch what you buy, because you could pay a lot of money and
not be getting anything for the money," he said.


GRAPHIC: Photograph

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996


                             2849 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 14, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. H01

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Testing a Combination Punch Against Disease; Method May Speed
Development of Drugs

BYLINE: Kathleen Day, Washington Post Staff Writer

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

BODY:


   A scientist in a laboratory at Pharmacopeia Inc. flashes a broad smile and
holds up four fingers, a signal of success to a company executive standing on
the other side of a window.

   The sign language says that four agents that cause disease have interacted
chemically with one of the tens of thousands of compounds in the company's
chemical library. This could be the beginning of the development of a successful
new drug.

   Schering-Plough Corp., the pharmaceutical giant that hired Pharmacopeia to
test thousands of compounds against the diseases, certainly hopes so. It also
hopes that the testing process, known as combinatorial chemistry, will
significantly reduce its drug-finding costs. Analysts think the process will
revolutionize pharmaceutical development.

   Drugmaking always has been trial, error and serendipity. For every 10,000
substances screened, perhaps 100 will show enough promise to warrant further
investigation as a possible enemy against a disease. Of these 100, perhaps 10
will be tried out on humans. And of these 10, only one will pass the tests and
be put on the market.

   Using traditional methods, it takes on average 12 years and $ 350 million for
a drug to travel from idea through testing to the market.

   Combinatorial chemistry employs computers, robots and the knowledge gained
from biotechnology research to rapidly screen vast numbers of chemicals against
diseases. Drug manufacturers hope the technique will reduce by several years and
several million dollars the time and cost of developing new drugs.

   Pharmacopeia scientists take hundreds of simple chemicals and, building on an
inert plastic bead the size of a grain of talcum powder, string them together in
specific, recorded combinations. Then, using a technique licensed from Columbia
University and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, the company tags each string with
the chemical equivalent of an I.D. card.

   Robots then put the chemical combinations into plastic trays that contain
dozens of one-inch wells. Each well holds a liquid containing a protein or other
substance that causes a specific disease. The trays are passed through an
electronic scanner. In seconds, the scanner will detect increased radioactivity
or ultraviolet waves, a signal that one of the combinations is reacting to a
disease agent and deserves further testing. A typical test against a disease
might screen 100,000 chemical combinations.

   Once an active well is identified by the scanner, each of the individual 20
strings in it are tested to find the one that reacted. Then scientists use the
screening process again to test large numbers of variations of that chemical
combination, honing in on which works best and eliminating many of the
hit-or-miss interim steps involved in traditional drug chemistry.

   Combinatorial chemistry is the scientific community's response to the
explosion of information being generated by genetics and biology that helps
scientists understand better how diseases work.

   The process "is a fundamental paradigm shift in drug development," said
Edward Hurwitz, senior biotechnology analyst for the investment banking firm of
Robertson, Stephens & Co. in San Francisco. "You're now screening millions of
compounds in months or weeks, whereas it used to take years to screen
thousands."

   The technique appeals to drug companies, which face increased competition and
shrinking profit margins. Because employers and insurers are resisting higher
prices, the companies are cutting costs.

   Combinatorial chemistry has been around for seven or eight years, industry
executives said, but its practical application has accelerated in the last
three. However, the process is still young enough that it has yet to produce its
first major drug. Nonetheless, drug manufacturers are confident enough of its
potential to have invested heavily in the companies that do it.

   One of combinatorial chemistry's key applications is to screen the tens of
thousands of natural and synthesized compounds that companies such as Merck &
Co. and Pfizer Inc. have collected and stored in chemical libraries over the
years. Many of those compounds have not been tested because of the lack of a
quick screening method.

   When scientists talk about combinatorial chemistry, they also include in the
term the technologies that have evolved to record, store and interpret the large
amount of information that rapid screening generates. The technologies include
computer modeling and storage capabilities; automation such as robotics for
doing repetitive lab work; and the miniaturization of electronic laboratory
techniques.

   Biotechnology also contributes to the power of combinatorial chemistry by
giving scientists much more detail about the chemical makeup of the diseases
that drugmakers hope to attack with new drugs.

   "The limitations of conventional pharmaceutical research are a fundamental
reason for the high cost and slow pace of drug discovery," said Raymond Salemme,
chief executive and founding scientist at 3-Dimensional Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
combinatorial chemistry company in Exton, Pa. "The information is exploding. The
only handle you have in compressing this information and making it usable is a
computer and accompanying automation."

   A chemist using traditional methods can create about 50 new compounds a year,
at a cost of about $ 5,000 to $ 7,000 each, said Joseph A. Mollica, chairman and
chief executive of Pharmacopeia. Using combinatorial chemistry, Pharmacopeia can
increase that to 100,000 new compounds a year per chemist for several dollars a
compound.

   What enables Pharmacopeia to mass-screen is a proprietary method of combining
chemicals and the licensed tagging system that will not itself react to the
disease or otherwise interfere with the experiment.

   Other companies use other methods to string together and tag combinations.
Most of these methods are patented either in-house or by a university. But the
result is the same: Fast mass-screening.

   The importance of rapid screening to the drug industry has been underscored
in recent months by a spate of acquisitions by large drug companies of small,
relatively new combinatorial chemistry companies.

   Eli Lilly and Co. paid $ 80 million for Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corp. of
Durham, N.C. Glaxo Wellcome PLC paid $ 533 million for Affymax N.V. of Palo
Alto, Calif. Marion Merrell-Dow Inc., which has since been purchased by
Germany's Hoechst AG, bought Selectide Corp. of Tucson for $ 58 million.

   Merck and Pfizer have their own internal combinatorial chemistry divisions.

   Pharmacopeia was created in 1993 by a California venture capital firm that in
turn received funding from Sandoz Ltd. Pharmacopeia went public in December,
raising $ 44 million from the sale of stock to the public.

   Pharmacopeia has a number of large drug companies as customers. In addition
to Schering-Plough, they include Sandoz and Berlex Laboratories.

   Large drug companies also are among those that have aggressively pursued
alliances with companies trying to decipher the human hereditary code, or
genome, in an effort to devise new drugs. Sandoz, for example, last year paid $
295 million to buy Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg.

   It's the combination of genome science and combinatorial chemistry that
industry executives say is most powerful. Genome science helps the researchers
use combinatorial chemistry to design compounds specifically aimed to work
against the chemistry of a target disease.

   Like most combinatorial chemistry companies' libraries, Pharmacopeia's
contains what scientists call "small molecules." These are chemicals that,
because they are relatively simple, can withstand the human digestive system
without being destroyed. This makes them good candidates for pills that can be
taken orally -- the most popular way to take medicine.

   Executives at Pharmacopeia point out that 90 percent of the drugs in the $
200 billion pharmaceutical market are made from small molecule compounds.

   David Stone, biotechnology analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York, said the
economics of combinatorial chemistry are compelling.

   A drug company can no longer count on making money by coming out with what is
called a "me-too" drug, a compound that is similar to an existing drug but with
some minor difference, such as how often a patient should take the drug, he
said.

   "The place to be is breakthrough drugs, a drug that works by a new
mechanism," he said. And doing that more cheaply is key. "Pharmacopeia is the
fast-food of drug screening," he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo, The Washington Post

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996April 14, 1996


                             2850 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            April 13, 1996 Saturday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1:1,5,6,7; B-10:3

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Salk finds new gene technique

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Scientists at the Salk Institute have developed a new technique for
delivering therapeutic genes into the body, and they believe it could make
gene-therapy approaches to medicine more effective and practical. They developed
the technique by re-engineering the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, the
one that causes AIDS, and capitalizing on HIV's ability to penetrate cells and
deliver genetic information. "We are hopeful that our development overcomes one
of the major obstacles and paves the way for making gene therapy a readily
available, even routine, medical practice," said Inder Verma, co-director of
Salk's Laboratory of Genetics. The study was published in yesterday's issue of
the journal Science.

   Even though researchers used HIV that had been rendered harmless, another
AIDS strain that infects other animals and not humans likely would be used for
gene therapy to guard against any chance of AIDS infection, Verma said. For
years, the delivery of genes that produce therapeutic substances has been hailed
as a potentially powerful new form of medicine to treat inherited and other
diseases. But one reason it has been slow in gaining widespread use is that it
is difficult to deliver enough of the therapeutic genes and deliver them to the
places they are needed. It is these obstacles the Salk researchers sought to
address. Delivering genes is cumbersome and inefficient now, requiring that
cells be taken from the patient in a surgery, armed with a therapeutic gene and
then re-implanted, Verma explained.

   Even so, too often not enough of the substance the gene makes reaches its
target, and too often the cells wither over time, requiring another transplant.
Verma, in collaboration with Didier Trono and Luigi Naldini of the Salk, turned
to HIV because it can penetrate cells that are not dividing -- important areas
for therapy that include the brain and liver, lung and kidneys -- and it carries
genes directly into the nucleus of cells and imbeds them in the cell's DNA.
There, the gene should crank out the therapeutic substance along with all the
cell's normal functions. Working the Fred Gage, the other co-director of Salk's
Laboratory of Genetics, researchers then injected genetically armed HIV into the
brains of lab animals and found it entered the brains cells just as they had
expected.

   At least 10 to 15 percent of the brain cells were penetrated by the virus in
the experiment, Verma said, and scientists expect the delivery can be even more
efficient. The scientists were able to succeed by retaining crucial parts of the
outer coating of the HIV that allow it to penetrate and imbed in cells.

   They also had to add another protein to the virus' outer coating that would
enhance its ability to infect a range of different types of cells. Even though
the HIV was treated to be stripped of its harmful, disease-causing potential,
other retroviruses that cause diseases resembling AIDS in monkeys, horses or
cattle likely would be used in any standard therapy to ensure against AIDS,
Verma explained. The Salk labs will next test the ability of their HIV technique
to deliver to other tissues. "This is proof of the principle," Verma said.

   It will be left to biotechnology companies to develop delivery systems using
the other viruses, he said. But that could be achieved within a couple years, he
added. To have an even better delivery system, Verma acknowledged, researchers
will want to add a molecular tag that sends the viruses to a specific address in
the body, such as the liver and brain.

   Such an addressing system would ensure that the gene is imbedded into the
cells where the therapy is needed.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2851 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                     April 12, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Scientists find key to premature aging; Discovery of WRN gene might
lead to treatments of diseases of elderly

SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:


   WASHINGTON -- Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic
mysteries of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for
-- or slowing of -- diseases that afflict the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Dr. Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said Dr.
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   Treatments for aging are a long way off and certainly many still undiscovered
genes are involved, Dr. Schellenberg and other scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, Dr. McCormick
cautioned.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging. Werner's is
slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka University
shared with Dr. Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples. Dr. Schellenberg then
teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches ever
screened in a gene hunt -- 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Dr. Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint, in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases aren't uncoiling DNA properly --
so cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he explained.

   His next step is to prove that is what occurs, by examining the four WRN
mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he checked the WRN genes of 144
healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single copy of the gene. Both
copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to develop.

   Pub Date: 4/12/96

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996


                             2852 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      April 12, 1996, Friday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Scientists use parts of AIDS virus in gene therapy experiments

BYLINE: By Richard Saltus, Globe Staff

BODY:

    In a biological swords-to-plowshares maneuver, scientists have used parts of
the deadly AIDS virus to create an improved viral carrier for implanting healthy
genes into sick patients.

   The new vector, as gene carriers are called, could help scientists make a
long-awaited advance in research on gene therapy - putting desired genes into
the nucleus of cells that are not in the process of dividing. Most body cells
are "resting," not growing and splitting in two, and viruses can't enter the
nucleus where the genetic blueprints are stored.

   If the new carrier works as well as it has in experiments, "we would have a
shot" at putting genes into nondividing cells, said Dr. John Belmont of the
Baylor University Center for Gene Therapy. "This would have many applications
and would open a lot of possibilities," Belmont, who was not involved in the
work, said in a telephone interview.

   The researchers, from the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif., said using
parts of the human immunodeficiency virus was safe because it had been gutted of
components it needs to reproduce.

   "We chopped off lots of parts of it," Inder Verma, leader of the Salk team,
said in a telephone interview. "We debilitated it so that it can function" for
the purpose of the gene implant "but is no good after that."

   Scientists have long experimented with various types of virus carriers
because their ability to infect cells makes them ideal gene-delivery vehicles.
Retroviruses (HIV is one) are particularly useful because they insert their gene
cargo directly into the DNA blueprint of the patient's cell. When the cell makes
its normal proteins, it inadvertently makes the protein whose recipe is in the
inserted gene. That protein is what scientists hope will cure the disease.

    The new vector incorporates key parts of the AIDS virus that enable it to
penetrate the nucleus of cells even when they are not dividing. The wily AIDS
virus is equipped with a piece of DNA that enables it to find a way into the
nucleus and insert itself into the genetic blueprints, Verma said.

   Because vectors currently available can't insert their cargo into the
chromosomes of a nondividing cell, gene therapy researchers have had to go
through a detailed process: remove cells of organs they are trying to repair,
grow them in the lab and prod them into division, insert the desired genes and
then return the cells to the patient.

   "This has been one of the major stumbling blocks in the application of
retroviral vectors to gene therapy," Belmont said, "and it restricts the
efficiency of using these vectors to target stem cells" - key blood cells into
which physicians would like to get healthy genes to treat a number of diseases.

   Using the new viral carrier, Verma and his team showed that genes could be
inserted into nondividing blood cells and also into rat brain cells, which are
not dividing. Verma said it's not yet possible to determine how many cells the
genes penetrated, but experiments showed they remained in the cells for at least
a month.

   The new vector "could increase the applicability of retroviral vectors in
human gene therapy," wrote Verma and his co-authors, who include Daniel Ory and
Richard Mulligan of the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge.

   A review of the lagging field of gene therapy by the head of the National
Institutes of Health led to a recommendation that scientists come up with better
vectors and carry out more basic research before trying the procedures in
humans.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1996


                             2853 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

               April 12, 1996, FRIDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Gene Hunters Uncover A Major Clue to Aging

BYLINE: BY LAURAN NEERGAARD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic mysteries of
aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for diseases
that afflict the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said Dr.
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   This is all early research -- treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick cautioned.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared with Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches
ever screened in a gene hunt -- 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint, in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   "Whatever you can imagine that happens to DNA, helicases are involved,"
Schellenberg said.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases aren't uncoiling DNA properly --
so cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he said.

GRAPHIC:  ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996


                             2854 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                   April 12, 1996 Friday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: GENE DISCOVERY COULD HELP DECIPHER MYSTERY OF AGING

BYLINE: LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   WASHINGTON -- Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic
mysteries of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for
-- or even slowing of -- diseases that hit elderly people.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year- olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   This is all early research -- treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer hope for gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of
the gene in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, said Dr. Anna
McCormick of the National Institutes of Health.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age- related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Most victims die before 50.
Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   ***

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2855 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                      April 12, 1996, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 25; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: STUDY TOUTS AIDS VIRUS FOR GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: From The Washington Post

BODY:


   The same characteristics that make the AIDS virus such a cunning and
effective killer may make it ideal as a medical tool for gene therapy, new
research indicates.

   In Friday's issue of the journal Science, a team from the Salk Institute in
La Jolla and the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge,
Mass., shows that certain slow-acting viruses such as the human immunodeficiency
virus that causes AIDS can be exploited to change the genetic content of cells
that are difficult or impossible to target by conventional gene therapy.

   To replace defective genes or supply missing ones in their patients, gene
therapists often employ viruses as the vehicle (or "vector") because they are
notoriously talented at hijacking healthy cells and inserting viral genes in
place of the cells' normal genetic material.

   Scientists splice the desired human genes into a modified form of the virus,
infect the human subject and wait for the virus to rearrange the cells' genetic
code. Although promising, this technique has proven largely disappointing so
far.

   One reason is that most of the viruses used only affect cells while they are
in the process of dividing. Many cells in the body--including neurons, "stem"
cells that produce various kinds of blood components, liver cells and muscle
fibers--never divide once they are mature. Those cells can be removed from the
body, chemically induced to reproduce, genetically altered while dividing and
then returned to the patient. But that elaborate process "can be done to
comparatively few cells," said lead author Inder Verma of Salk, "and very often
it damages the cells."

   What is needed instead, Verma said, is a vector that can inject its genes
into cells that aren't dividing--and do so entirely within the body.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996


                             2856 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          April 12, 1996 Friday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: BREAKTHROUGH LOCATES A KIND OF HOLY GRAIL'
 Scientists discover gene related to aging process
 Researchers hope finding may lead to treatments for diseases of old age

SOURCE: Associated Press, Seattle Times

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic mysteries of
aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for or even
slowing of diseases that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   "We are one step closer to understanding how we normally age. And we're one
step closer to understanding diseases like atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes,
cataracts and osteoporosis," Schellenberg said.

   Schellenberg and his colleagues believe the new research may be especially
important in understanding the genetic basis of some cancers.

   "These Werner's syndrome patients get a wide variety of cancers, and they
have a different distribution of the cancers than other patients," said
Schellenberg, who previously helped locate two genes for Alzheimer's disease.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   This is all early research treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick cautioned.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease that researchers believe
affects 200 to 2,000 people in the United States. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   "They have so many different kinds of abnormalities, it is very demoralizing
for them," said George Martin, director of the University of Washington
Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and one of the study's authors.

   While the discovery of WRN is very significant for the study of aging and
disease process, Martin and Schellenberg emphasized that the gene most certainly
is not the only one responsible for aging.

   Martin estimated that as many as 70 genes may have major importance in the
aging process, and thousands more are less involved.

   "We all have unique patterns of aging," he said.

   For the future, Darwin Molecular scientists plan to immediately begin
analyzing patients who develop atherosclerosis or cancer at an early age to see
if their WRN genes differ from others. That research, they hope, eventually will
lead to treatments for the diseases.

   The scientists also plan to analyze the WRN genes of very elderly people to
see how they are different from those of others to glean still more clues about
aging.

   In other health news:

   DNA: Facing a legal challenge to collecting DNA samples, the Pentagon says
military personnel who fear "genetic discrimination" may have their specimens
destroyed once they complete their service.

   The decision, outlined in a memo released Thursday, comes as two Marines face
court-martial for refusing to submit to DNA testing and as a study suggests
nearly 50% of people with genes that could cause disease have experienced
discrimination by insurers, employers and others.

   The Pentagon has been collecting samples of deoxyribonucleic acid from all
enlisted men and women and civil servants since 1993 for the purpose of "remains
identification." The specimens were to be stored 75 years.

   Hantavirus: Two South Dakota men who live and work together also shared an
infection of hantavirus, bringing the total number of cases in the United States
to 131.

   Both men, who worked and lived at a cattle feedlot, survived. The CDC said
they could have picked up the bug from rodents, the primary source of infection.

   The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Thursday that
sporadic outbreaks of the virus, first identified in 1993, continued in 24
states through March 21.

   The CDC said 49.6% of the people who contracted hantavirus died. New Mexico
has had the most cases 28 followed by 21 in Arizona and 13 in California.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996


                             2857 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  April 12, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Virus Delivers a Gene Therapy to Rats

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

BODY:

   A modified, harmless version of the virus that causes AIDS has been
successfully used to deliver gene therapy in laboratory experiments, scientists
said today.

   In gene therapy, a "vector," like a harmless virus or a virus modified to be
rendered harmless in humans, is needed to shuttle the therapeutic gene to its
target. But scientists have faced tremendous obstacles in finding an appropriate
virus that can be used directly on cells in the human body and not just in
cumbersome laboratory procedures.

    Scientists at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego, and
the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass., used a
disabled version of H.I.V., the AIDS virus, as a vector in experiments on rats'
brains and in laboratory cultures of human cells.

   "It is truly a case of turning swords into plowshares," said Dr. Fred Gage of
the Salk Institute, a co-author of the research being published on Friday in the
journal Science.

   Advocates of gene therapy, which has not yet lived up to its promise, believe
it could potentially be used to treat thousands of genetic disorders, like as
cystic fibrosis or muscular dystrophy as well as cancer and degenerative
disorders like Alzheimer's disease.

   Although the researchers modified the virus, stripping its power to reproduce
and leaving only the parts that allow the virus to integrate itself into the
host cells, they recognize that H.I.V. is complicated and not completely
understood. So if human experiments are carried out, they said, it would prudent
to use cow or monkey immunodeficiency viruses instead of H.I.V.

   In the experiments, the modified H.I.V. was able to take the therapeutic
repair genes directly to diseased neurons in five female rat brains. One Salk
researcher, Dr. Inder M. Verma, said the experiments had proved that "our
vectors have the ability to affect a nondividing cell."

   That is crucial because most cells in the body are nondividing ones and
previous gene therapy vectors worked only on dividing cells. That means cells
that were dividing had to be removed from muscles, skin, bone marrow or liver,
cultured in the laboratory, inoculated with the vectors and then implanted back
into the body.

   All that can be skipped with the H.I.V.-derived vector, which can deliver the
therapeutic genes directly into nondividing cells in the body, the researchers
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996


                             2858 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        APRIL 12, 1996 Friday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: RESEARCHERS FIND GENE SEEN AS KEY TO AGING< IT CAUSES A RARE DISEASE
IN YOUNG PEOPLE.< THE DISCOVERY COULD LEAD TO CURES FOR ILLS OF THE AGED.

BYLINE: Lauran Neergaard, ASSOCIATED PRESS, This article includes information
from Reuters.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking the genetic mysteries
of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for - or even
a slowing of - diseases that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes a rare inherited disease called Werner's syndrome, which
turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and gives them ailments more common to
grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging should help doctors better
understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, a geneticist whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs
Medical Center won an international race to identify the gene, named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces - activities long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in
today's issue of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health,
which helped fund the research carried out in the United States, Japan and
Syria.

   This is all early research - treatments for aging are a long way off, and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agreed.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick cautioned.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   In Werner's syndrome, victims' hair turns gray in their 20s. Soon, cataracts
cloud their vision, and they are afflicted by osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly. Most victims die before 50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared with Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches
ever screened in a gene hunt - 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   The normal WRN gene appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint, in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   "Whatever you can imagine that happens to DNA, helicases are involved,"
Schellenberg said.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases are not uncoiling DNA properly -
so cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones, or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he explained.

   His next step is to prove that this is what's happening, by examining the
four WRN mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he checked the WRN genes
of 144 healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single copy of the gene.
Both copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to develop.

   NIH's McCormick also wants to check the WRN of healthy people at different
times in their lives to see whether the gene's activity changes with normal
aging. And already Darwin Molecular is lining up test patients to see how WRN
links different diseases.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2859 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                             April 12, 1996, Friday

SECTION: Pg. 6, Part A

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON - Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking

SOURCE: Associated Press


BODY: WASHINGTON - Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic
mysteries of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for
- or even slowing of - diseases that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents.

   Unraveling this premature aging should help doctors better understand normal
aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said Dr.
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   This is all early research -treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick cautioned.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene.

   The company hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared with Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples.

   Schellenberg then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest
DNA batches ever screened in a gene hunt - 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   study research medicine genes old older age

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998


                             2860 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 12, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: GROWING YOUNG SCIENTISTS FIND GENE THAT MAY HELP TO SLOW AGING PROCESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic mysteries of
aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for - or even
slowing of - diseases that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns the hair of 20-year-olds gray
and gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature
aging should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene, which is called WRN.

   Schellenberg said the team was "interested in the aging process itself - not
necessarily to arrest it but to help people age in a healthier way."

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
issue of the journal Science. "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how
that could happen, said Dr. Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the
National Institutes of Health.

   "The goal is to improve people's 'health span,' " the length of time they can
remain healthy and independent, said McCormick, whose agency helped finance the
research.

   So far, the team has identified four mutations of the gene, which is one of
many genes probably involved in aging.

   This is all early research. Treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists say.

   'A Whole New Window'

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to repair, McCormick
cautioned. But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related
diseases," said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a
biotechnology company in Seattle that holds the patent rights to the gene. The
company hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare, inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud the vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared with Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular Corp. to sequence one of the largest DNA
batches ever screened in a gene hunt - 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint, in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so that repair enzymes
can snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   "Whatever you can imagine that happens to DNA, helicases are involved,"
Schellenberg said.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases are not uncoiling DNA properly -
so cells are not reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he explained. His next step is to prove that that is what's happening,
by examining the four WRN mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he
checked the WRN genes of 144 healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single
copy of the gene. Both copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to
develop.

   McCormick also wants to check the WRN of healthy people at different times in
their lives to see if the gene's activity changes with normal aging.

   Darwin Molecular is lining up test patients to see how WRN links different
diseases. For example, does the same helicase mutation hurt both tumor
suppressor genes that help block cancer as well as the creation of chemicals
that keep arteries free of blockages?

   "The exciting thing about this is, it shows an error in DNA metabolism which
actually connects cancer with cardiovascular disease," because Werner's causes
both, Galas said. "It's the first gene that's ever really made that connection."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996


                             2861 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                             April 12, 1996 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Discovery of gene responsible for premature aging will aid elderly
research

BODY:

   WASHINGTON (AP) Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic
mysteries of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for
or even slowing of diseases that hit the elderly.

    The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

    "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene,'` said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

    The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science. "This is the first clear evidence'` to explain
how that could happen, said Dr. Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the
National Institutes of Health.

    This is all early research treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

    Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick cautioned.

    But the discovery does offer ``a whole new window into age-related
diseases,'` said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a
Seattle biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The
company hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

    Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray in
their 20s. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease,
cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

    Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

    Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared with Schellenberg his patients' tissue samples. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches
ever screened in a gene hunt 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

    Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

    DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

    "Whatever you can imagine that happens to DNA, helicases are involved,'`
Schellenberg said.

    If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases aren't uncoiling DNA properly so
cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he explained.

    His next step is to prove that is what's happening, by examining the four
WRN mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he checked the WRN genes of
144 healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single copy of the gene. Both
copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to develop.

    NIH's McCormick also wants to check the WRN of healthy people at different
times in their lives to see if the gene's activity changes with normal aging.

    Already Darwin Molecular is lining up test patients to see how WRN links
different diseases. Does, say, the same helicase mutation hurt both tumor
suppressor genes that help block cancer as well as the creation of chemicals
that keep arteries free of blockages?

    "The exciting thing about this is it shows an error in DNA metabolism which
actually connects cancer with cardiovascular disease,'` because Werner's causes
both, Galas said. ``It's the first gene that's ever really made that
connection.'`

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2862 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                     April 12, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: New-found gene may unlock secrets of aging

BYLINE: A Tribune Wire Service Report

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:


   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking the genetic mysteries
of aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for - or even
slowing of - diseases that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling this premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   "We are one step closer to understanding diseases like atherosclerosis,
cancer, diabetes, cataracts and osteoporosis," Schellenberg said.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   WRN does not offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too massive to fix, McCormick said.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene.

   Werner's syndrome, a rare inherited disease, affects only 200 to 2,000 people
in the United States. Victims' hair turns gray in their 20s. Soon, cataracts
cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart disease, cancer and other ailments of
the elderly hit. Most victims die before 50.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared his patients' tissue samples with Schellenberg. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches
ever screened in a gene hunt - 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases aren't uncoiling DNA properly -
so cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, Schellenberg said.

   His next step is to prove that is what's happening, by examining the four WRN
mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he checked the WRN genes of 144
healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single copy of the gene. Both
copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to develop.

   NIH's McCormick also wants to check the WRN of healthy people at different
times in their lives to see if the gene's activity changes with normal aging.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996


                             2863 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                          April 12, 1996 Friday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS DISCOVER AGING GENE;
MIGHT LEAD TO TREATMENT OF ELDERLY

BYLINE: By LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press writer

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Scientists have taken the first step toward unlocking genetic mysteries of
aging, discovering a gene that one day might lead to treatments for diseases
that hit the elderly.

   The gene causes Werner's syndrome, which turns 20-year-olds' hair gray and
gives them ailments more common to grandparents. Unraveling premature aging
should help doctors better understand normal aging.

   "A kind of Holy Grail of aging research has been to find this gene," said
Gerard Schellenberg, whose team at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center
won an international race to identify the gene named WRN.

   The gene appears to play a vital role in how DNA repairs itself and
reproduces, long suspected as keys to aging, Schellenberg reports in today's
edition of the journal Science.

   "This is the first clear evidence" to explain how that could happen, said Dr.
Anna McCormick, chief of aging research at the National Institutes of Health.

   This is all early research; treatments for aging are a long way off and
certainly many still undiscovered genes are involved, Schellenberg and other
scientists agree.

   Nor does WRN offer gene therapy for Werner's, because every copy of the gene
in every cell is defective, a problem too widespread to fix, McCormick said.

   But the discovery does offer "a whole new window into age-related diseases,"
said David Galas, chief scientist for Darwin Molecular Corp., a Seattle
biotechnology company that holds the patent rights to the gene. The company
hopes the discovery will point the way to future drugs.

   Werner's syndrome is a rare inherited disease. Victims' hair turns gray when
they are young. Soon, cataracts cloud their vision and osteoporosis, heart
disease, cancer and other ailments of the elderly hit. Most patients die before
50.

   Doctors consider Werner's a model for research on normal aging.

   Werner's is slightly more common in Japan, and a rival gene-hunter at Osaka
University shared his patients' tissue samples with Schellenberg. Schellenberg
then teamed with Darwin Molecular to sequence one of the largest DNA batches
ever screened in a gene hunt - 650,000 bases, or chemical units.

   Normal WRN appears to govern the production of vital enzymes called
helicases, Schellenberg reported.

   DNA carries the body's genetic blueprint in double-helix strands coiled
inside every cell. Whenever a cell reproduces, the DNA strands first must uncoil
so they can be copied accurately for the new cell. Likewise, whenever the body
needs to repair a cellular defect, the DNA must unwind so repair enzymes can
snip off the defective piece. Helicases make DNA unwind.

   "Whatever you can imagine that happens to DNA, helicases are involved,"
Schellenberg said.

   If WRN is mutated, presumably the helicases aren't uncoiling DNA properly so
cells aren't reproducing to replace dying ones or DNA damage is not being
repaired, he said.

   His next step is to prove that is what's happening, by examining the four WRN
mutations he found in Werner's patients. When he checked the WRN genes of 144
healthy people, only one had a mutation on a single copy of the gene. Both
copies must be defective for Werner's syndrome to develop.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1996


                             2864 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 12, 1996, Friday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: HIV May Be Useful in Gene Therapy; Scientists Consider Exploiting
Characteristics of Similar Viruses

BYLINE: Curt Suplee, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   The same characteristics that make the AIDS virus such a cunning and
effective killer may make it ideal as a medical tool for gene therapy, new
research indicates.

   In today's issue of the journal Science, a team from the Salk Institute in La
Jolla, Calif., and the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge,
Mass., shows that certain slow-acting viruses such as the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) that causes AIDS can be exploited to change the genetic content of
cells that are difficult or impossible to target by conventional gene therapy.

   To replace defective genes or supply missing ones in their patients, gene
therapists often employ viruses as the vehicle (or "vector") because they are
notoriously talented at hijacking healthy cells and inserting viral genes in
place of the cells' normal genetic material. Scientists splice the desired human
genes into a modified form of the virus, infect the human subject and wait for
the virus to rearrange the cells' genetic code. Although promising, this
technique has proven largely disappointing so far.

   One reason is that most of the viruses now used only affect cells while they
are in the process of dividing. Many cells in the body -- including neurons,
"stem" cells that produce various kinds of blood components, liver cells and
muscle fibers -- never divide once they are mature. Of course, those cells can
be removed from the body, chemically induced to reproduce, genetically altered
while dividing, and then returned to the patient. But that elaborate process
"can be done to [comparatively] few cells," said lead author Inder Verma of
Salk, "and very often it damages the cells."

   What is needed instead, Verma said, is a vector that can inject its genes
into cells that aren't dividing -- and do so entirely within the body. Certain
kinds of retroviruses, including HIV, handle that task superbly well. But they
also usually reproduce themselves dangerously and cause infected cells to
produce so much foreign protein that it alerts the body's defense system to
attack and kill the cells.

   So the Salk-Whitehead group set out to rebuild HIV in a way that would avoid
those problems. They modified the virus's outer protein coat, substituting
variations from other viruses. They disabled key HIV components essential to
viral replication, while retaining instructions for two proteins that help HIV
sneak its genes into the host cell's chromosomes. Then they stuck in two
completely unrelated genes that would allow them to determine whether the
genetic transfer had been successful.

   They tested the modified HIV vector on human cancer cells in which division
had been artificially halted, and on human immune-system cells called
macrophages (which do not divide and normally spend their time eating unwanted
microbes or vacuuming up tissue debris). In both cases, the modified HIV
delivered the desired genetic payload. The researchers also tried the virus on
rat brain cells, which do not divide. Again, the HIV vector did the job.

   Nonetheless, the researchers warn, "for human experimentation, it may be more
prudent to develop vectors" from similar viruses that do not infect humans, such
as the simian immunodeficiency virus that afflicts monkeys but not people.

   Verma said the researchers are now at work creating a cell line to produce a
large amount of the virus, and have begun testing the vector on stem cells.
Within a few years, he speculated, it could be tested in other animal species to
assess its ability to treat conditions such as cystic fibrosis and hemophilia.

   Last December, an expert report commissioned by the National Institutes of
Health concluded that the clinical potential of gene therapy had been "oversold"
and that its success record to date was disappointing. Among other initiatives,
the NIH advisory panel urged "vigorous and expanded research aimed at developing
improved vectors."

   The Salk-Whitehead investigators seem to have met part of that challenge.

   "We believe that the generation of safe and efficacious lentiviral vectors
will significantly advance the prospects of human gene therapy," the authors
write.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996April 12, 1996


                             2865 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                            April 11, 1996 Thursday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: SCIENCE; Pg. F05

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: NIH CHIEF CALLS FOR BETTER RESEARCH TEAMWORK

BYLINE: OZ HOPKINS KOGLIN, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Thursday, April 11, 1996 NIH CHIEF CALLS FOR BETTER RESEARCH TEAMWORK

   Summary: Dr. Harold W. Varmus will speak about his agency at a  congressional
field hearing today in Portland

   The head of the nation's leading biomedical research agency says it's time
to update the way we do science.

   Dr. Harold E. Varmus, director of the National Institutes of Health, is
talking about basic and clinical researchers working hand in hand to fight
disease.

   ``It is going to require having more Ph.D's take an active interest in
diseases, and we need to adjust our thinking,'' Varmus said in a telephone
interview. Varmuswill speak at 2 p.m. today in Portland at a congressional
field hearing.

   Although the difference is not precise, basic research is generally thought
of as laboratory work, while clinical research generally involves people --  and
seldom do they meet.

   Varmus, who became the 14th director of NIH in 1993, is a 1989 Nobel
laureate for his work in cancer research. But he does not put himself in the
``basic research box,'' although he is a leader in the study of cancer-causing
genes and an authority on retroviruses, the viruses that cause AIDS and many
cancers in animals.

   ``All of us who do basic research in the area of biomedicine care very
deeply about our work actually benefiting patients,'' Varmus said.

   Early this year, when Sen. Mark O. Hatfield, R-Ore., introduced the  Clinical
Research Enhancement Act of 1996, he said clinical research was in  crisis and
that NIH grants were heavily weighted toward basic reseach.

   Varmus will speak about his agency, but not for or against the bill, at a
hearing arranged by Hatfield in Portland. At the hearing, panelists including
OHSU President Dr. Peter O. Kohler will discuss getting the maximum return  from
federal money for biomedical research through expanding clinical research
opportunities.

   Varmus, who thinks NIH did very well in this year's budget process -- the
agency got $11.9 billion -- with ``wonderful support from Senator Hatfield,''
said the issue of what constitutes clinical research has been a contentious  one
through the years.

   ``Is work doing molecular biology with a human sample clinical research?
Someone is doing behavioral research with human subjects. Is that clinical
research?'' he asked.

   NIH spends at least $1.5 billion on clinical trials, but ``if we look at  all
the research that involves human beings one way or another it is closer to $5
billion,'' he said.

   Varmus doesn't see a division between clinical and basic research. Insteade
argues that fundamental, or laboratory, research is now very close to the
clinical.

   For example, ``gene therapies or new immuno therapies and the use of
recombinant proteins represent a new kind of biology being applied in the
clinic,'' Varmus said.

   ``We are not just talking about doing trials with conventional
pharmaceutical agents. We are talking about doing things that are really quite
different from what's been done in the past,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2866 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            April 11, 1996 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: In our city: gang wars, art funds, and genes

BYLINE: Neil Morgan

BODY:

   Gang warfare in San Diego has led to unprecedented security precautions at
Mercy Hospital.

   A gang member shot in the back recently underwent major intestinal repairs in
the Mercy trauma center.

   Two days later a member of a rival gang was shot repeatedly in retaliation.

   Trauma surgeons removed portions of his intestines, repaired his legs, and
stitched him up. The presence of these rival gang victims in related shootings,
both in recovery at Mercy, led to the unusual protection measures. "It got so
ridiculous," says Dr. Michael Sise, head of Mercy's trauma unit, "that when one
guy was about ready to leave we had to send him to a different floor and change
both of these guys' names to hide them because of the risk of gang members
visiting them." (A report on renewed gang violence and its effect on San Diegans
will appear here on Sunday.) Who supports the arts?

   Demographic fallout from surveys of San Diego's arts market comes down to two
major groups: established affluent 55-plus college graduates, professional,
white-collar or retired.

   They're found most readily by ZIP codes in La Jolla, Mission Hills, Point
Loma, Rancho Bernardo, Rancho Santa Fe and Coronado.

   The second group: college graduates in their 30s and 40s, middle-class to
affluent, singles, couples, and young families: "They tend to drink imported
beer and bottled water.

   They like jazz and progressive rock music and do artistic things.

   They own beepers, do aerobics and go to college basketball games." The Rev.
Robert Nikliborc, the stubborn priest of St. Anne's Roman Catholic parish, has
posted a notice to teen-agers of St. Anne's: "ATTENTION TEEN-AGERS: If you are
tired of being HASSLED by unreasonable parents, now is the time for action.

   Leave home, and pay your own way, while you still know everything!" With all
its problems, his Barrio Logan parish is predominantly Hispanic and Catholic,
and Fr. Nikliborc has faith in the traditional Hispanic concern with family
values.

   "They're at least as deep in family values as most white families I've
known," he says. Among the upbeat rat-a-tats of San Diego's life are the almost
weekly announcements of multimillion-dollar contracts signed by Science
Applications International Corp., the La Jolla-based research and systems group.

   Another happy sign: breakthroughs at local research centers that are hailed
in the science press almost weekly.

   Plant geneticists at Salk Institute have a paper in today's issue of the
journal Nature on a significant advance in understanding how plant growth is
regulated.

   Another biggie in gene therapy from Salk is coming up tomorrow in Science.
The proliferation of attorneys is not showing much slackening, but the number of
legal secretaries is.

   By one national estimate, 600,000 positions have been replaced by computers
and by a thinning out of the ratio of secretaries to lawyers.

   Once almost one-for-one in big San Diego offices, it is now down to
one-in-three in some firms as lawyers handle more work by computer. Among San
Diego luxury hotels delayed by the recession was The Four Seasons Resort Aviara
in south Carlsbad.

   Construction that began about five years ago will be resumed soon and,
according to present plans, will resume by May. Says manager Christopher
Hunsberger: "There hasn't been a property like this built in San Diego County in
20 years." A No. 1 national rating for Scripps Institution of Oceanography this
year has brought pride and acclaim to our picturesque cliff-side campus, but
funding prospects cloud the future at SIO and in all U.S. oceanographic
research.

   Science notes the expected arrival in San Diego this summer of a new research
vessel named for the late Roger Revelle, the renowned Mr. San Diego and UCSD
founder.

   Science worries: "The U.S. research fleet, with three new vessels, may be the
best in the world.

   But rising costs and tightening budgets could leave scientists high and dry."
NEIL MORGAN'S column appears Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2867 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1996 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        April 9, 1996 Tuesday 2D EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-02

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING

BODY:

   SCHULLER COMPLETES SWAP WITH MANVILLE TRUST: Schuller Corp. said yesterday it
has completed a swap that gives the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust
more shares in exchange for giving up the right to 20 percent of Schuller's
profit. The swap of 32.5 million shares, valued at $ 467 million based on
Schuller's current stock price, is part of its plan to simplify its corporate
structure, which was complicated by its relationship with the trust. Investors
will find Schuller more attractive, knowing there's no prior claim on its
earnings, the company said. Schuller said it will take a $ 310 million loss in
the first quarter for the swap, which will leave the trust with a fully diluted
79.3 percent stake. Schuller, a Denver-based maker of building and insulation
products, recently changed its name from Manville Corp. (Bloomberg)

   BLACK HAWK APPROVES HOTEL-CASINO PLAN: A site plan to develop a $ 53 million
hotel and casino has been approved by the city of Black Hawk, and ground could
be broken on the project as early as this summer, a spokesman for the Black Hawk
Gaming & Development Co. said yesterday. The unnamed hotel and casino is being
developed by Black Hawk Gaming, which operates and owns 50 percent of the city's
Gilpin Hotel Casino, and Jacobs Entertainment, Inc., based in Cleveland. A major
obstacle in the project's way is Colorado Department of Transportation approval
of the addition of another access ramp from Colorado 119 to Main Street, said
Black Hawk Gaming spokesman Stan Politano. The new access will allow patrons to
turn off the highway and immediately enter into the hotel's underground valet
parking. Another consideration is funding, which company officials hope will be
resolved within the next 90 days. (AP)

   UNITED LOAD FACTOR AT 68.7 PERCENT: United Airlines filled 68.7 percent of
its seats with paying passengers in the January-March quarter, according to
preliminary figures released yesterday by the Chicago-based airline. The latest
figures represent an increase of 1.7 points from the 76 percent passenger load
factor of first-quarter 1995, United said. (The Denver Post)

   SOUTHWEST TO END COMPANION DEAL: Southwest Airlines will end its free
companion ticket offer, five years after it was first instituted. Airline
spokesman Ed Stewart said yesterday that the last purchase date to buy tickets
under the "Friends Fly Free" program will be April 11 with flying through Sept.
5. The free companion ticket had been available when a passenger bought an
unrestricted fare. Stewart said that the free companion ticket fare was
instituted on Sept. 19, 1991, as a "Kids Fly Free" program, but then was
expanded to cover all passengers. "Friends Fly Free" possibly could resume at a
later date. "It's just a matter of when we think we'll need to resurrect it," he
said. Dallas-based Southwest is a short-haul carrier with fares that other
airlines have been trying to match through similar short-haul services.
Arlington, Va.-based USAir and Houston-based Continental Airlines currently
offer the companion fares, but said they would not talk about price moves in
advance of changes. (AP)

   ROCKWELL TO PAY $ 6.5 MILLION FINE OVER FATAL BLAST: Rockwell International
Corp. agreed yesterday to plead guilty to hazardous-waste crimes and pay a $ 6.5
million fine over a 1994 explosion that killed two men at its rocket-engine
testing grounds. The victims - and a third man, who was injured - were
apparently trying to dispose of a highly explosive propellant by blowing it up.
The fine was the maximum allowed and the biggest criminal environmental fine in
California history, federal prosecutors said. The defense contractor's formal
guilty plea was supposed to be entered yesterday, but was delayed until Thursday
by U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who wanted time to review the
agreement. The plea bargain does not protect individuals from charges including
negligent homicide. Nor does it protect Rockwell from lawsuits. The explosion
took place at Rocketdyne's Santa Susana Mountains field laboratory northwest of
Los Angeles. (AP)

   BURLINGTON NORTHERN OFFERS REWARD FOR SABOTAGE TIPS: Burlington Northern
Santa Fe Corp. said it will pay up to $ 10,000 for tips leading to the arrest of
people who sabotage railroad property or equipment. The move comes two months
after the railroad operator called in the FBI to investigate a freight train
crash in St. Paul, Minn. In February, an 89-car train carrying cargo to
Galesburg, Ill., struck six Canadian Pacific Railroad locomotives parked in St.
Paul after the train's brakes failed. Fort Worth, Texas-based Burlington
Northern said it suspected sabotage in the accident, which injured nine people.
The company's reward program, called BNSF Crime Tip, seeks information about
arson, theft, destruction or tampering involving railroad property such as
bridges and tracks, as well as rolling stock, signals and other equipment. The
maximum $ 10,000 reward applies to each incident of sabotage. (Bloomberg)

   ANNTAYLOR TO BUY OUT PARTNER'S INTEREST: AnnTaylor Stores Corp. said
yesterday it will buy Cygne Designs Inc.'s interest in their joint venture
supply company and a Cygne unit that makes clothing for the retailer for $ 36
million in stock plus additional cash. The specialty women's retailer purchased
about 38 percent of its merchandise last year through the joint venture, called
CAT U.S. Inc., and bought an additional 16 percent of its merchandise directly
from Cygne. AnnTaylor said the purchase of Cygne's 60 percent interest in the
venture and the Ann Taylor Woven Division will help it better control the
production of its goods as the retailer attempts to improve operations.
(Bloomberg)

   JANUS HIRES MARKETING DIRECTOR: Janus Funds, Denver's largest no-load mutual
fund company, has hired a new director of retail marketing. Janus said it hired
Stuart Novek, vice-president for investor marketing at Oppenheimer Funds of New
York, to fill the position, which has been vacant since July 1995. (The Denver
Post)


   RENTAL PROPERTY: If you rent property, in addition to normal rent payments,
advance rent, security deposits, and payments for canceling a lease must also be
claimed as income, advises the Colorado Society of CPAs. If you are a co-owner
of a rental property, you must report your part of the rental income on your
taxes. (The Denver Post)

   SHORT-TERM TREASURY RATES MIXED: Interest rates on short-term Treasury
securities were mixed in yesterday's auction. The Treasury Department sold $
13.6 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.03 percent,
down from 5.07 percent last week. Another $ 13.6 billion in six-month bills were
sols at an average discount rate of 5.19 percent, up from 5.06 percent. The
three-month bill rate was the lowest since they sold for 4.99 percent on March
25. The six-month bill rate was the highest since they averaged 5.20 percent on
Dec. 11. The new discount rates understate the actual return to investors - 5.16
percent for three-month bills with a $ 10,000 bill selling for $ 9,872.90 and
5.40 percent for a six-month bill selling for $ 9,737.60. (AP)

   GRACE SALE: W.R. Grace & Co. said yesterday it agreed to sell the transgenic
plant business of its Agracetus subsidiary to Monsanto Co. for $ 150 million in
cash. The Agracetus operation, based in Middleton, Wis., develops genetically
altered products for the agricultural, pharmaceutical and cotton fiber
industries. It has about 100 employees. Agracetus' human gene therapy business,
which is focused on DNA vaccines, is not included in the transaction. It will
remain with W.R. Grace, doing business as Auragen Pharmaceuticals Inc. Monsanto,
based in St. Louis, makes agricultural and chemical products. W.R. Grace, based
in Boca Raton, Fla., makes flexible packaging and specialty chemicals, and
provides specialized health care services. (Dow Jones)

LOAD-DATE: April 09, 1996


                             2868 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                          April 9, 1996 Tuesday Final

SECTION: Business Pg. 1

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Monsanto to acquire Agracetus
 W.R. Grace to receive $150 million for genetic engineering firm

BYLINE: PRADNYA JOSHI

SOURCE: Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   Monsanto Co. agreed Monday to purchase the assets of Middleton-based
Agracetus from W.R. Grace & Co. for $150 million in cash.

   Agracetus, a 100-employee operation, genetically engineers plants to develop
products for agriculture, pharmaceutical and cotton fiber industries. Monsanto
has been a licensee of some of Agracetus' technology since 1991.

   The acquisition should help Monsanto develop and move new products to market
more quickly, said Loren Wassell, spokesman for the St. Louis-based company, an
agricultural biotechnology company that also develops value-added food and fiber
crops.

   Agracetus' sales were not disclosed, but the purchase price includes the
technology, intellectual property and licensing of Agracetus products, Wassell
said.

   "This is part of the restructuring plan of W.R. Grace to focus on its core
businesses, which are flexible packaging and specialty chemicals," said Grace
spokesman Chuck Suits.

   Grace, based in Boca Raton, Fla., will keep Agracetus' gene therapy business
that focuses on DNA vaccines and operate it as Auragen Pharmaceuticals Inc.

   Agracetus is known for its work in transforming plants, particularly
transferring genetic material to help improve crops. Agracetus has also
developed cotton plants that have improved fiber properties, strength,
appearance and texture.

   The company is also known for genetically engineering a variety of other
crops including soybeans, peanuts, green beans and cranberries.

   "Agracetus' knowledgeable work force will enhance Monsanto's existing
capabilities," said Robert T. Fraley, president of the Monsanto unit that
develops new agricultural products.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1996


                             2869 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  April 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
GENETIC ENGINEERING UNIT TO BE SOLD TO MONSANTO

BYLINE: Dow Jones

BODY:

   W. R. Grace & Company said yesterday that it had agreed to sell a unit of its
Agracetus subsidiary that develops genetically altered products for the
agricultural and pharmaceutical industries. The unit, which is based in
Middleton, Wis., is to be sold to the Monsanto Company for $150 million in cash.
Agracetus's human gene therapy business will remain with W. R. Grace, doing
business as Auragen Pharmaceuticals Inc. Monsanto, which is based in St. Louis,
makes agricultural and chemical products.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1996


                             2870 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 08, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F05

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: The Little Firm With the Big Fat Contract; Creating Tests and
Treatments for Obesity Could Make Oncor a Biotech HeavyweightDrugs

BYLINE: Kathleen Day , Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Executives at Oncor Inc. in Gaithersburg credit Dan Rather and the "CBS
Evening News" with the biotechnology company's decision to enter the race to
find fat-fighting drugs.

   "I heard the news on the TV and called the scientist up the next morning,"
said William Ryan Jr., president of OncorPharm, a majority-owned subsidiary of
Oncor that specializes in cancer diagnostics and research.

   The news that caught Ryan's attention one evening last August was that a
researcher at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore had identified the first
known genetic flaw for obesity, which scientists believe is a major factor in
the obesity of an estimated 16 million Americans. The company two weeks ago
announced a deal with the university under which Oncor has exclusive rights to
develop diagnostic tests and therapeutic drugs based on the university's patent
of the fat gene.

   The gene variation is one of 30 genes in the human hereditary code that
scientists have yet to pinpoint, but believe are involved in various types of
obesity, which is defined as being 20 pounds or more overweight. Today, about 34
percent of adults in the United States fit that definition, up from 25 percent
10 years ago. The trend is alarming: Obesity is a major cause of death because
it leads to two common killers, heart disease and diabetes.

   Companies that develop remedies to combat the nation's expanding waistlines
could be in fat city: The National Institutes of Health estimates that Americans
spend $ 30 billion a year on various weight-loss products and services.

   The Johns Hopkins fat gene works differently from the fat gene in mice
discovered by scientists at Rockefeller University that made headlines last July
and that biotech giant Amgen Inc. of Thousand Oaks, Calif., paid $ 20 million
for the exclusive right to develop. The Rockefeller gene makes mice who carry it
fat by disrupting the chemical signal that their brain needs to feel full and
stop eating.

   Since the hoopla about the mice, scientists have discovered that the finding
doesn't necessarily translate to humans. However, still other research into how
the brain receives those "stomach full" signals holds promise and is being hotly
pursued by several large drug companies, biotech analysts and executives said.

   One fat drug, made by Interneuron Pharmaceuticals Inc. in Lexington, Mass.,
has been recommended for federal approval by a Food and Drug Administration
advisory panel. Nearly a dozen others are expected to be submitted to the
federal agency for approval over the next decade by companies such as
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Glaxo Wellcome Inc. and American Home Products Corp.

   The Johns Hopkins gene, by contrast, is one that, when flawed, slows a
person's metabolism, meaning that cells burn fat more slowly than someone
without the error, regardless of whether the brain gets the message to stop
eating.

   Oncor and Johns Hopkins officials predict that a diagnostic test for the gene
flaw could be on the market within a year. They expect some of its first big
users will be drug companies trying to develop compounds that influence stomach
signals to the brain.

   These companies would use Oncor's test to identify people whose obesity stems
from a low metabolic rate caused by the gene flaw that Johns Hopkins scientists
discovered. These people probably wouldn't respond well to drugs that improve
communication between the brain and the stomach, so eliminating them from test
groups could increase the fat pills' success rate.

   Developing drugs to counteract the genetic flaw will take much longer,
OncorPharm's Ryan said. It will be at least three years before the company
begins human tests of a first generation of fat pills, and two to three times
longer, at best, before it might win federal approval to sell the drug to
consumers.

   The first medicines the company hopes to develop would not offer a permanent
solution to the flawed gene, so it would have to be taken regularly, like most
drugs, company officials said. Ultimately, the company, through OncorPharm,
envisions developing drugs that would permanently fix the flaw, requiring only
several treatments, officials said.

   "It's gene therapy, the next generation of gene therapy," said Stephen
Turner, Oncor's chairman and chief executive.

   Oncor's technology is based on two key patents from Princeton and Yale
universities that harness the body's natural ability to repair broken genes.

   Genes carry the inherited chemical instructions that tell every cell what to
do -- become hair, eyes or bone, for instance. Broken or otherwise physically
misshapen genes are detected and repaired by proteins that run up and down the
strands of deoxyribonucleic acidr (DNA). But the protein doesn't read a flawed
chemical sequence as a problem, only a structural error. That's why genetic
flaws that cause cancer, obesity, cystic fibrosis and a host of other diseases
go undetected and therefore unfixed during the body's natural repair process.

   With the Princeton and Yale technology, Oncor can decipher the exact spot on
a gene it wants to target and deliver to it a drug that acts as a flag to repair
proteins, causing them to change the chemical sequence of that portion of the
gene.

   "From that point on, we have no control over the process," Ryan said. "It's
up to nature."

   And nature, in attempting that repair, will succeed in changing the flawed
chemical code to an unflawed, or corrected, code in only 2 percent of the
billions of cells in a body. But the effect is cumulative, so if it is repeated
10 times, 20 percent of the cells will have been corrected cells. And once
corrected, the cell will pass the new code to future generations of cells.

   Most of the time that the correction doesn't occur, Oncor executives said,
the flawed chemical code is reinserted in the same spot, leaving a patient no
worse off than when he or she started. Far less frequently -- Ryan says less
often than side effects occur with prescription drugs now on the market -- a
detrimental flaw will be inserted in the gene.

   The Princeton technology uses a strand of genetic material to hunt targeted
sites on the long, double strands of DNA that make up genes. The Yale technology
enables scientists to attach a drug to that strand and deposit it at the site to
act as a flag.

   Where is the desired site? Determining that is where patents like Johns
Hopkins's are useful. Identifying a gene with an undesirable chemical code
embedded in it allows Oncor to correct the site by delivering corrective drugs
using the methods developed at Princeton and Yale.

   Oncor hopes to apply those methods to a variety of patented genetic flaws.
Before a fat drug gets to market, in fact, Oncor hopes to have medicines to
treat sickle cell anemia, cystic fibrosis and severe immune deficiency diseases.

   The Yale and Princeton technology helped sell Johns Hopkins on On cor, even
though it is a relatively small company and has yet to show a profit.

   In 1995 Oncor lost $ 18.2 million on sales of $ 17.4 million, including
OncorPharm's sales. Oncor owns 50 percent of OncorPharm, but, because of the
kind of stock other shareholders own, Oncor's balance sheets reflect all of
OncorPharm's operation. And Oncor's results include 40 percent of sales and
losses of OncorMed, a laboratory subsidiary.

   The company's size, and its proximity to the Johns Hopkins campus and medical
school in Baltimore, also worked in its favor in winning over the university,
said Alan Shuldiner, the lead scientist on the team that discovered the gene.

   Within a few days of Ryan's phone call last August, Johns Hopkins had a
handshake agreement to give the company exclusive rights to use information
about the gene to try to develop therapeutic drugs. It took another six months
to work out the fine print of a contract.

   "You know how lawyers are," Ryan said.

   A Three-Pronged Research Approach

   Oncor's chairman and chief executive, Stephen Turner, founded the company in
1984 to develop genetic tests systems. The company has the first and only
FDA-approved gene-based test, a cancer test that distinguishes between two
common forms of leukemia. The company has applications before the FDA for tests
of a type of breast cancer and a common form of leukemia. And, through its
Gaithersburg operations and a wholly owned subsidiary in Strasbourg, France, it
supplies scientists at universities and companies worldwide with many of the
tools needed to perform genetic testing research.

   Oncor, with $ 1 million, formed OncorMed in 1993 as a laboratory subsidiary
that specialized in conducting and analyzing medical tests and in providing
accompanying services, such as medical counseling. Oncor owns 30 percent of the
company. Last year it formed OncorPharm, also with a $ 1 million investment, to
develop drugs from the same information that the parent company uses to develop
tests. It owns 50 percent of the company.

   Turner said he formed the subsidiaries because the development and sales of
tests, drugs and testing services require different skills. This way, he said,
each company has a management team dedicated to a particular slice of the
medical market, allowing it to stay focused and raise money from investors, who
often find it more comfortable to invest in one product area.

   Oncor's ownership of the two subsidiaries has declined as outside investors,
often venture capitalists, invest in them. But Oncor intends to continue to hold
a major share of the stock of the two subsidiaries and collect royalties on any
sales.

   Together, Oncor and its subsidiaries employ 300 people.


GRAPHIC: Photo, bill o'leary, Oncor's president, William Ryan, left, and the
company's chairman and chief executive, Stephen Turner, in a laboratory in
Gaithersburg.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996April 08, 1996


                             2871 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                     April 7, 1996, Sunday, 2 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Two reporters win medical writing honors

BYLINE: Staff

BODY:

   Houston Chronicle reporters Ruth SoRelle and Jim Morris have
been honored by statewide medical organizations for projects
published last year.

   SoRelle, the Chronicle's medical writer, won a Texas Medical
Association Anson Jones Award in the science of medicine
category for ""The Gene Doctors,'' a special section on
developments in gene therapy.

   And the Texas Public Health Association, in its annual media
competition, cited ""The Gene Doctors'' as well as Morris' ""Easy
Prey,'' a year-long series on exploitation of the poor.

   Morris is a special projects reporter.  ""Easy Prey'' included
investigations of the Texas Medicaid dental program, dangerous
and unhealthy work places, and substandard apartments.

   The Texas Public Health Association is an organization of
government, private sector and charity public health
personnel.  Awards to Morris, SoRelle and six other Texas
journalists were presented at TPHA's annual awards banquet
Monday in Plano.

   The TMA is a physician's organization.  The Anson Jones Award,
named for a Texas pioneer, statesman and physician, honors
journalists for work in 12 categories and will be presented at
TMA's annual convention May 10 in San Antonio.


GRAPHIC: Mugs: 1. Ruth SoRelle; 2. Jim Morris

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1996


                             2872 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 Little Rock Newspapers, Inc.
                  Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock, AR)

                            April 02, 1996, Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: UAMS DOES NEW GENE TREATMENT

BODY:



   A New York man is the first patient to undergo a new treatment for multiple
myeloma at the Arkansas Cancer Research Center at the University of Arkansas for
Medical Sciences.

   Dr. Nikhil Munshi, a UAMS oncologist who performed the gene therapy treatment
Wednesday, said the procedure had not been performed previously in the United
States. A similar therapy has been used to treat leukemia and lymphoma in Italy,
Munshi said.

   The new procedure is designed to prevent a potentially fatal complication
common in bone marrow transplant patients.

   Vincent Tropiano of Long Island, who was diagnosed with multiple myeloma two
years ago, underwent chemotherapy last spring and received a bone marrow
transplant last November at the cancer center in Little Rock. But Tropiano's
cancer wasn't eradicated, Munshi said.

   More than a month ago, Munshi combined a "suicide gene" into Tropiano's
brother's cells. That combination -- which had multiplied millions of times
--was inserted into Tropiano during a 10-minute procedure last week. Those cells
are expected to kill the myeloma cancer cells in Tropiano's body.

   Munshi said it will take a couple of years before researchers know what kind
of role this treatment could have on other cancer patients.

   More than 14,000 Americans were diagnosed with multiple myeloma last year,
according to a UAMS press release.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 1996


                             2873 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                      April 2, 1996, Tuesday, City Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL/FOREIGN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Cancer agent shows promise;
Genetically engineered substance effective in rats

BYLINE: By Peter J. Howe, Globe Staff

BODY:

    A substance made from genetically engineered cells acted as both a cure and
a vaccine against brain cancer among laboratory rats, and it may soon be
available for test use on humans, researchers said yesterday.

   The advance could one day have applications in cancers of the breast, lung,
colon, bladder, ovary and prostate. Like brain cancer, those diseases rely on
biological disguises that the medicine effectively defeats, allowing the body's
immune system to find and attack the cancer.

   Writing in today's issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, a team led by Habib Fakhrai of the University of California at Los
Angeles and San Diego's Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center described a 100 percent
success rate curing 11 lab rats with brain cancer by injecting them with
genetically engineered molecules.

   Later, these rats were injected with 20 times as many brain cancer cells as
would normally kill them, but all survived, indicating the injections also acted
as a vaccine.

   Fakhrai's team, which is working with biotechnology firm Immune Response
Corp. of Carlsbad, Calif., has won approval from a panel of the National
Institutes of Health to test the substance on humans.

   It hopes to get Food and Drug Administration approval to start tests on brain
cancer patients with poor prognoses as soon as this summer, and later expand
tests to people with other kinds of cancer.

   Dr. Robert E. Sobol, one of Fakhrai's colleagues, said in a telephone
interview yesterday that "one of the most exciting elements of our work is that
this approach may have some very broad applications."

   But "there has been a lot of criticism of gene therapy for hyping itself,"
based on findings that worked in animals but failed in humans. "We need to be
cautious and not overplay the potential," he said.

   One way to explain the therapy is to compare cancer to foreign agents wearing
disguises that invade the body. In this metaphor, Fakhrai's team has developed a
way to inject the body with versions of the invading agents without their
disguises. This allows the body's immune system to recognize and attack the
invaders even when clad in their disguises, Sobol said.

   In this case, the disguises are a substance called transforming growth
factor-beta, or TGF-B, which normally allows the cancer to grow by suppressing
the immune system.

   During 1996, the American Cancer Society estimates, 13,300 Americans will die
of brain or central nervous system cancer and 17,900 will be diagnosed with it.

   However, cancers that kill several times more people - such as lung, breast
and colon - also rely on the same TGF-B process, Sobol said.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996


                             2874 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                   April 2, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY FOUND TO SLOW AIDS VIRUS U-M STUDY DESCRIBED AS SMALL BUT
IMPORTANT

BYLINE: PATRICIA ANSTETT Free Press Medical Writer

BODY:

   Gene therapy interferes with the way the AIDS virus reproduces in people,
according to a University of Michigan study published today.

   The research in today's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences is
the first published study of gene therapy in HIV patients.

   While small and experimental, it is "a major step forward" in showing how
gene therapy can sustain the immune system in HIV-infected patients, said U-M
researcher Dr. Gary Nabel.

   There were no adverse side effects from the treatment, he said.

   .

   In the study, Nabel took blood samples from three patients and transformed
them in the laboratory to produce a protective or mutant gene protein believed
capable of stopping HIV from replicating.

   Nabel then reinfused the patients with these protein- treated white blood
cells.

   Nabel found that the method helped T-cells, one of the key elements of the
body's immune system, live longer, compared to T-cells which did not receive the
altered protein. The treated cells may help patients with HIV live longer, but
more research would be needed to see whether that theory proves true.

   For now, Nabel wants to see whether more cells can be infused and whether a
different method of delivering the genetic protein makes it more effective.

   It's too early to say that gene therapy improves the immune response or
reduces symptoms in persons with HIV, Nabel said.

   But it holds hope, he said, particularly if used in combination with
antiviral drugs, for prolonging life.

   ***

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2875 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                             April 2, 1996, Tuesday

SECTION: Pg. 3, Part A

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON - An experiment in three HIV patients has shown

SOURCE: Associated Press


BODY: WASHINGTON - An experiment in three HIV patients has shown for the first
time that gene manipulation can protect immune system cells from infection by
the virus that causes AIDS, researchers say.

   The experimental therapy at the University of Michigan involved inserting
altered genes into white blood cells from HIV patients, expanding the number of
the altered cells in the laboratory, then injecting the cells back into the
patients.

   A report on the research is to be published today in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

   Dr. Gary Nabel, professor at the University of Michigan Medical Center and a
Howard Hughes Medical Institute researcher, said the work showed for the first
time in clinical studies that gene therapy can be used to prolong the survival
of CD4 T-cells, the white blood cells that are the primary target of HIV, the
virus that causes AIDS.

   A loss of CD4 T-cells is a primary marker for the progress of the HIV
infection, and it is believed that guarding against the loss of these cells may
prolong life for HIV patients.

   In the study, Nabel and his colleagues targeted an HIV gene called REV, which
is essential for the reproduction of the virus in infected cells.

   The researchers drew blood from three HIV patients and separated from that
blood the CD4 T-cells that are attacked by the virus.

   These cells were treated with two antiviral drugs to prevent further HIV
reproduction.

   Then one of two altered genes was inserted using gold micro particles as the
transfer vector.

   Half the cells received a modified REV gene that produces a defective protein
and is known to prevent HIV from reproducing. The rest of the cells received a
gene that produces a protein that could be used as a marker in later laboratory
analysis.

   medicine study acquired immune deficiencysyndrome human immunodeficiency
virus genes

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998


                             2876 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                             April 2, 1996 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Gene cancer therapy ready for human test

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Scientists have eradicated brain tumors in rats with genetically engineered
cells that apparently help the animals' immune systems defeat the cancer, and
they hope to test the method in humans this summer. The technique apparently
thwarts the tumor's characteristic ability to "cloak" itself and evade detection
by the immune system, researchers at the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center in La Jolla
and at the University of California Los Angeles are reporting. "It is my opinion
that we have taken a big first step toward finding new approaches to gene
therapy for cancer," said Habib Fakhrai, a molecular biologist who left the
Kimmel center last year for a job at UCLA. Researchers envision the approach
initially as a complement to traditional surgery for the fast-growing, usually
fatal glioblastoma tumors.

   The new therapy would mop up cancer cells missed by the surgery, said Dr.
Robert Sobol, of Kimmel. Other cancers, including those of the breast, ovaries,
lung, colon and prostate, also may be treated with the same approach. In the
experiment, 12 rats with brain tumors were treated with genetically boosted
cells, and the tumors disappeared and did not return when researchers exposed
the animals to additional tumor cells. Those results are published in today's
issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The approach
"cured 100 percent of the rats," Fakhrai said. The researchers are seeking
permission from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to begin the trials
in glioblastoma patients as early as this summer. The researchers are trying to
exploit a novel strategy against the molecular intrigue that makes cancer so
difficult to defeat. The aim is to neutralize the substance the tumor cells rely
on to hide themselves from the protective vigilance of the immune system, which
otherwise should destroy the aberrant cells. The tumor cells make large amounts
of a substance called transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-B), which suppresses
the immune system by binding to the immune systems' helper T cells.

   By tying up the T cells, tumors "cloak themselves and hide from the immune
system," Fakhrai said. In collaboration with Sobol and Kimmel President Ivor
Royston, Fakhrai took tumor cells, rendered them harmless, then added an
engineered gene that makes a mirror image copy of the TGF-B. The cells were
reinjected into the animals, where the genes can make mirror-image, or
"anti-sense," copies of the molecule in the cell.

   Precursor molecules, called RNA, of the TGF-B bind with the precursors of the
mirror version like two sides of a zipper. The TGF-B is not available to occupy
the immune system at this point, scientist believe, and the cancer cells become
visible to immune surveillance.

   The T cells can recognize the strange shapes of the cancer cells and attack
them, Sobol said. When more tumor cells were injected into the treated animals,
no tumors grew back, suggesting that the technique also acts like a vaccine to
keep the immune system active, Royston said.

   They were free of tumors 12 weeks after they were given the genetically
altered cells, Royston said. Said Fakhrai: "We have shown that we can immunize
animals and make them resistant to subsequent tumors." The scientists have
sought FDA permission to try the technique in 12 patients who have had surgery
for glioblastomas.

   It would be intended to eradicate cells that almost inevitably are missed in
surgery.

   The doctors believe their technique works best at triggering a response
against small tumors, Sobol said. A National Institutes of Health panel that
must review the procedure already has agreed to let the human testing begin.

   If the FDA concurs, patients will be treated at hospitals in the Sharp
HealthCare system here and at UCLA, under the direction of Fakhrai and Dr. Keith
Black, Sobol said. The Immune Response Corp. of Carlsbad has licensed the use of
the technique.

   The company is interested in developing it to treat colon and prostate
cancers, too, said Richard M. Bartholomew, executive director of research and
development. Cancer is complicated, Sobol cautioned, adding that is it not clear
how the new therapy will work in people.

   It could be years before it is accepted as a standard therapy. If the
approach is borne out, however, doctors might consider it later as a potential
vaccine for people with genetic predisposition to the tumors -- even before they
become ill, Sobol said. The new technique is a departure from earlier attempts
by researchers at Kimmel to use gene transfers to directly stimulate an immune
system response against tumors. Already, Immune Response researchers have been
testing the two approaches together in laboratory animals with ovarian cancers,
Bartholomew said.

   The results seem promising, leading researchers to hope that they will be
able to test the combined techniques in people with colon or prostate cancers,
Bartholomew said. Sobol said he hopes that these additional human trials will
get under way within six months.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2877 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 2, 1996, Tuesday, THREE STAR Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

COLUMN: BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

BODY:


   ISRAEL

   Peres Says He'll Hold Vote On Any Final Peace Deal

   Breaking new ground, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres said Monday that he
would hold a referendum on any final peace agreement with the Palestinians.

   Coming less than two months before Israel's general elections, Peres' pledge
appeared aimed at undecided voters who fear that a Peres government would make
too many concessions to the Palestinians.

   Negotiations on the final status of Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
as well as the future of 144 Jewish settlements, are to begin next month.

   The opposition Likud bloc claims Peres will agree to hand over most of the
West Bank as well as part of Jerusalem to Palestinian control. Peres has denied
he would agree to divide Jerusalem.

   Speaking to Israeli reporters en route to the Persian Gulf state of Oman,
Peres said, "I will ask the party for a mandate to handle negotiations on the
final status with the Palestinians and to inform them that we will hold a
referendum.

   The announcement marked the first time he has mentioned the possibility of a
referendum on a final peace agreement with the Palestinians.

   Likud responded with a statement accusing Peres of trying to "fool the
public" with talk of a future plebiscite. "The real referendum will be the day
of the elections," the statement said.

   AP

   NATION

   AIDS RESEARCH

   Study Finds Gene Therapy Can Help Cells Fight HIV

   An experiment in three HIV patients has shown for the first time that gene
manipulation can protect immune system cells from infection by the virus that
causes AIDS, researchers say.

   The experimental therapy at the University of Michigan involved ins erting
altered genes into white blood cells from HIV patients, expanding the number of
the altered cells in the laboratory and then injecting the cells back into the
patients.

   A report on the research is to be published today in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

   Dr. Gary J. Nabel, professor at the University of Michigan Medical Center and
a Howard Hughes Medical Institute researcher, said the work showed for the first
time in clinical studies that gene therapy can be used to prolong the survival
of CD4 T-cells, the white blood cells that are the primary target of the HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS.

   AP

   FREEMEN STANDOFF

   Rally Called For Group Draws Only 8 Supporters

   A rally called to show support for the Montana Freemen drew eight people
Monday in Lewistown, Mont., instead of the hundreds predicted by organizers.

   The organizers insisted their ranks would grow as the week progressed.

   The Freemen supporters, outnumbered 4 to 1 by reporters and TV camera crews,
held court at a paint-chipped picnic table in a snow-covered campground west of
town.

   The rally was about 120 miles west of the remote Garfield County farm where
the militants are holed up. More than 100 FBI agents have surrounded the farm
since the arrest of two Freemen on March 25.

   Participants said they would remain as long as the standoff continues.

   AP

   WHITE HOUSE INTRUDER

   Marine Won't Be Charged With Trying To Scale Fence

   Federal officials will not prosecute a Marine who was arrested as he
allegedly tried to scale the White House fence because he thought he was at his
base south of Washington.

   The Secret Service said Cpl. Jebediah Morris, 21, of Enid, Oklahoma, was
"extremely intoxicated" when arrested early Sunday and charged with unlawful
entry. The U.S. Attorney's office decided Monday to drop the charge and leave
any discipline to the Marines.

   AP

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Driving Someone Up A Wall A car dealer in front
of the television tower in Bremen, Germany, came up with this unique approach to
attracting customers - not to celebrating April Fool's Day.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996


                             2878 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 2, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

COLUMN: BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

BODY:


   WAR CRIMES

   Bosnian Croat General Surrenders To Officials

   A Bosnian Croat general charged with ordering massacres of hundreds of
Muslims surrendered to U.N. war crimes prosecutors Monday in The Hague,
Netherlands.

   The general, Tihomir Blaskic, flew from Zagreb, Croatia, to Amsterdam's
Schiphol airport and turned himself in to Dutch authorities, said Christian
Chartier, a spokesman for the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague.

   Blaskic was indicted in November in connection with massacres in central
Bosnia's Lasva Valley in 1992-93.

   AP

   NATION

   ABORTION PROTEST

   About 500 Demonstrators Urge Clinton To Sign Ban

   About 500 abortion opponents, led by two Roman Catholic cardinals,
demonstrated in front of the White House on Monday night to urge President Bill
Clinton to sign a bill outlawing some late-term abortions.

   Participants marched back and forth in front of the mansion in a driving
rain, holding candles and carrying signs that read "President Clinton, Sign the
Partial Abortion Bill" and "President Clinton, You Can Stop This."

   Many of the signs depicted the procedure some doctors call "intact dilation
and evacuation."ft

   Clinton has promised to veto the bill, which received final congressional
approval in the House last week.

   AP

   AIDS RESEARCH

   Study Finds Gene Therapy Can Help Cells Fight HIV

   An experiment in three HIV patients has shown for the first time that gene
manipulation can protect immune system cells from infection by the virus that
causes AIDS, researchers say.

   The experimental therapy at the University of Michigan involved ins erting
altered genes into white blood cells from HIV patients, expanding the number of
the altered cells in the laboratory and then injecting the cells back into the
patients.

   A report on the research is to be published today in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

   Dr. Gary J. Nabel, professor at the University of Michigan Medical Center and
a Howard Hughes Medical Institute researcher, said the work showed for the first
time in clinical studies that gene therapy can be used to prolong the survival
of CD4 T-cells, the white blood cells that are the primary target of the HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS.

   AP

   FREEMEN STANDOFF

   Rally Called For Group Draws Only 8 Supporters

   A rally called to show support for the Montana Freemen drew eight people
Monday in Lewistown, Mont., instead of the hundreds predicted by organizers.

   The organizers predicted their ranks would grow as the week progressed.

   The Freemen supporters, outnumbered 4 to 1 by reporters and TV camera crews,
held court at a paint-chipped picnic table in a snow-covered campground west of
town.

   The rally was about 120 miles west of the remote Garfield County farm where
the militants are holed up. More than 100 FBI agents have surrounded the farm
since the arrest of two Freemen on March 25.

   Participants said they would remain as long as the standoff continues.

   AP

   WHITE HOUSE INTRUDER

   Marine Won't Be Charged With Trying To Scale Fence

   Federal officials will not prosecute a Marine who was arrested as he
allegedly tried to scale the White House fence because he thought he was at his
base south of Washington.

   The Secret Service said Cpl. Jebediah Morris, 21, of Enid, Okla., was
"extremely intoxicated" when arrested early Sunday and charged with unlawful
entry. The U.S. Attorney's office decided Monday to drop the charge and leave
any discipline to the Marines.

   AP

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Driving Someone Up A Wall A car dealer in front
of the television tower in Bremen, Germany, came up with this unique approach to
attracting customers - not to celebrating April Fools' Day.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996


                             2879 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 2, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: BIO-ENGINEERS CURE BRAIN CANCER IN RATS; HUMAN TRIALS OF VACCINE MAY
BEGIN SOON

DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:


   A substance made from genetically engineered cells acted as both a cure and a
vaccine against brain cancer among laboratory rats, and it may soon be available
for test use on humans, researchers said Monday.

   The advance could one day have applications in cancers of the breast, lung,
colon, bladder, ovary and prostate. Like brain cancer, those diseases rely on
biological disguises that the medicine effectively defeats, allowing the body's
immune system to find and attack the cancer.

   Writing in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a team led by
Habib Fakhrai of the University of California at Los Angeles and San Diego's
Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center described a 100 percent success rate curing 11 lab
rats with brain cancer by injecting them with genetically engineered molecules.

   Later, these rats were injected with 20 times as many brain cancer cells as
would normally kill them, but all survived, indicating the injections also acted
as a vaccine.

   Fakhrai's team, which is working with the biotechnology firm Immune Response
Corp. of Carlsbad, Calif., has won approval from a panel of the National
Institutes of Health to test the substance on humans.

   It hopes to get approval from the Food and Drug Administration to start tests
on brain cancer patients with poor prognoses as soon as this summer and later
expand tests to people with other kinds of cancer.

   Dr. Robert E. Sobol, one of Fakhrai's colleagues, said in a telephone
interview Monday that "one of the most exciting elements of our work is that
this approach may have some very broad applications."

   But "there has been a lot of criticism of gene therapy for hyping itself,"
based on findings that worked in animals but failed in humans. "We need to be
cautious and not overplay the potential," he said.

   One way to explain the therapy is to compare cancer with foreign agents
wearing disguises that invade the body. In this metaphor, Fakhrai's team has
developed a way to inject the body with versions of the invading agents without
their disguises. This allows the body's immune system to recognize and attack
the invaders even when clad in their disguises, Sobol said.

   In this case, the disguises are a substance called transforming growth
factor-beta, or TGF-B, which normally allows the cancer to grow by suppressing
the immune system.

   "TFG-beta cloaks the cancer cells so they are not recognized by the immune
system," Fakhrai said in Los Angeles. "We actually created molecules that attach
to precursors of TGF-B and instructed them gene tically to stop working" so that
undisguised versions of the cancer could be introduced to the body.

   During 1996, the American Cancer Society estimates, 13,300 Americans will die
of brain or central nervous system cancer.

   Cancers such as lung, breast and colon also rely on the same TGF-B process.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996


                             2880 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                          April 2, 1996 Tuesday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY PUTS UP TOUGHER AIDS FIGHT

BYLINE: From wire reports

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   An experiment in three HIV patients has shown for the first time that gene
manipulation can protect immune system cells from infection by the virus that
causes AIDS, researchers say. The experimental therapy at the University of
Michigan involved inserting altered genes into white blood cells from HIV
patients, expanding the number of the altered cells in the laboratory and then
injecting the cells back into the patients. A report on the research is to be
published today in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   FBI clears Marine in White House climb

   WASHINGTON

   Federal officials will not prosecute a Marine who was arrested as he
allegedly tried to scale the White House fence because he thought he was at his
base south of Washington. The Secret Service said Cpl. Jebediah Morris, 21, of
Enid, Okla., was "extremely intoxicated" when arrested early Sunday and charged
with unlawful entry. A Secret Service spokesman said an agent found Morris, who
was unarmed, outside the fence before dawn. Queried, Morris told the officer he
thought he was at the Quantico Marine Base in suburban Virginia. A few minutes
later, Morris allegedly tried to climb the fence but was restrained.

   U.S. group files for access to abortion pill

   WASHINGTON

   American women may know by the end of the year if they can buy the French
abortion drug RU-486. The Food and Drug Administration confirmed Monday that the
nonprofit Population Council filed an application last month seeking to sell
RU-486, based on its results of testing in 2,100 American women. FDA
Commissioner David Kessler told Congress last year it would take about six
months to determine if RU-486 is safe enough, and effective enough, to sell to
Americans. However, the review could take up to a year, the time the agency
typically spends on drugs that don't address life-threatening diseases.

   U.S. government debt tops $5 trillion

   WASHINGTON (AP)

   For the first time, the government is more than $5 trillion in debt. The
Treasury Department announced Monday the government debt totaled
$5,029,951,000,000 at the end of business last Friday. President Clinton had
signed legislation that day raising the limit to $5.5 trillion, from $4.9
trillion. The debt limit was $49 billion in 1940 and has risen a hundredfold in
the last 55 years. Until Friday, the last increase was $530 billion in 1993 -
the 77th increase since 1940.

   Gingrich: GOP to challenge Perot backers

   ROSWELL, Ga.

   House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Monday that Republicans will challenge
members of Ross Perot's Reform Party to endorse certain GOP nominee Bob Dole at
their Labor Day convention. Gingrich put even odds on Perot running for
president again, but predicted that if the Texan did run, he would not do
anywhere near as well as his 19 percent showing in 1992. "This time he will be a
much smaller factor," Gingrich said.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996


                             2881 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                     April 2, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy shows promise for keeping HIV-infected healthy

BYLINE: Kim Painter

BODY:

   People infected with the AIDS virus might someday benefit from
a form of gene therapy, a pilot study suggests.

   The therapy prolonged the survival of critical immune cells in
three patients described in today's Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences.

   Scientists are a long way from knowing whether gene therapy might
actually prolong health or life in such patients, but the experiment,
the first of its kind, is a crucial step, researchers say.

   "Obviously, we need to look at larger numbers of patients, but
it's encouragement to proceed on," says Dr. Gary J. Nabel of
the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

   The trial should encourage other researchers to continue similar
experiments, say officials at the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, which sponsored the study.

   Nabel and colleagues took blood from HIV-infected people and separated
out the cells that are the main targets of HIV.

   In half of the cells, they placed a defective HIV gene that, in
lab studies, supresses HIV growth; in the other half, they put
a dummy gene with no known effect on HIV. They returned both batches
of treated cells to the patients.

   Results: The cells treated with the HIV-supressing gene lived
four to five times longer. There were no apparent ill effects.

   Other researchers are experimenting with other anti-HIV gene products.
The goal is to find a practical treatment with long-lasting effects
that will complement traditional drugs.

   Technical problems with delivering genes and achieving long-lasting
effects have slowed the progress of gene therapy for other diseases.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996


                             2882 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.
                                   USA TODAY

                     April 2, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Dismantling cancer's cloaking device

BYLINE: Tim Friend

BODY:

   The stealthy tricks a tumor uses to hide itself from the immune
system's killer cells can be stopped by a genetically engineered
vaccine soon to be tested in people.

   If the vaccine succeeds in shutting down a tumor's cloaking device,
it would allow the immune system to perform its search-and-destroy
mission, attack the cancer cells and prevent the tumor from spreading.

   Based on successful animal studies, human trials of the de-cloaking
strategy have been approved by the National Institutes of Health
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee.


   Researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, and
the Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, San Diego, plan to test an experimental
vaccine made using gene therapy techniques on people with cancers
of the brain, prostate and colon.

   UCLA's Dr. Habib Fakhrai, formerly at Kimmel, and colleagues discovered
that tumor cells secrete a substance called TGF-beta, which prevents
the immune system from recognizing the cancerous cells as abnormal.
The process is set in motion when genes inside a tumor cell issue
genetic instructions ordering the cell to make TGF-beta.

   When researchers discovered the exact message used by cancer cells,
they created a gene that intercepts the message and stops the
tumor cells from making TGF-beta.

   In animal experiments, cancer growth stopped in all 11 rats that
were injected with a vaccine containing the anti-sense gene.

   All five rats that were not given the vaccine died.

   When the 11 rats treated with the vaccine were later injected
with 3,000 times the lethal dose of cancer cells, they were unfazed
and showed no further evidence of cancer, says Fakhrai.

   Co-researcher Dr. Keith Black says studies in people with brain
tumors will begin at UCLA pending final FDA approval. Prostate
and colon cancer studies are planned for the Kimmel Cancer Center.

   The findings, also reported by Kimmel's Dr. Robert Sobol, appear
in today's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

   The research is funded in part by the National Cancer Institute
and by private and corporate donations. The Immune Response Corp.
of Carlsbad, Calif., will provide initial funding for the human
studies.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996


                             2883 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 02, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z11

LENGTH: 5402 words

HEADLINE: Rebecca Lilly's Brain Tumor Has Come Back for the Third Time. Can Gene
Therapy Save Her Life?

BYLINE: DON COLBURN

BODY:


   I'm soooo sick of Barney," groaned Rebecca Lilly, eyeing the feel-good purple
dinosaur on TV in the waiting room at Children's National Medical Center.

   Fifteen-year-old Becca was about to undergo brain surgery for the third time
since her cancer was diagnosed in 1991. As before, surgeons would open her skull
and cut out as much of the tumor as possible. But this time they would also try
a radically new attack.

   This time they would inject into her brain an altered virus carrying a gene
designed to trick the tumor into committing cellular suicide.

   Becca Lilly, of Takoma Park, is the first child ever treated with gene
therapy for brain cancer.

   A nurse checked Becca's blood pressure and warned her that "when you wake up
there are going to be tons of people all around you -- that's normal."

   At 9:40 a.m., neurosurgeon Steven J. Schiff told the Lillys he wanted to get
started. Down the hall, Becca waited for the pre-anesthesia line to go in. She
looked away and grimaced, her left hand gripping her dad's, as the needle-tipped
tube slid into a vein in her right wrist. Done. Becca trundled off toward the
operating room, escorted by the anesthesiologist.

   Her parents, Joe and Maureen Lilly, huddled briefly with Schiff in the
hallway. He explained that he would remove as much tumor as he could, but
probably wouldn't get it all. He also had to keep an eye on the time. The
crucial gene therapy cells, on their way by courier from a laboratory freezer in
Gaithersburg, would stay fresh only until 2 o'clock.

   "The main thing she's worried about is the haircut," Maureen Lilly said. She
had promised Becca she'd mention this. Schiff nodded knowingly and smiled. "I've
been through this many times."

   He shook hands with the Lillys and headed for the operating room.

   Becca's parents embraced. Her mother was crying.

   Becca Lilly, a 10th-grader at Good Counsel High School in Wheaton, has a
cruel disease. Even its name sounds scary: glioblastoma. The most aggressive of
brain tumors, glioblastomas grow back even when treated with state-of-the-art
medicine -- surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. Of children diagnosed with a
glioblastoma, only one in five is alive three years later.

   Becca's tumor was discovered more than four years ago. It was treated with
surgery and radiation in 1991 -- and again in 1994. When the tumor showed up for
a third time last November, standard medicine had nothing more to offer her.

   By coincidence, the same week her cancer came back, doctors won final
approval to test a dramatic new approach to pediatric brain tumors. The
experimental treatment, a form of gene therapy, will be tried in 15 children at
Children's and three other medical centers. The research is paid for by Genetic
Therapy Inc., the Gaithersburg biotechnology company that engineers the gene
therapy cells and holds exclusive marketing rights to the technology.

   "We never bypass conventional treatment for something experimental," said
Roger J. Packer, chairman of neurology and director of the brain tumor program
at Children's Hospital. "But in Becca's case, she didn't have any standard
treatments left."

   No one knows if it will work. But in order to find out -- or even to learn
the next step toward an answer -- doctors must test a promising but unproven
therapy on patients. Someone must go first. Ethically, the only patients
eligible are those who face such a dire prognosis with known treatments that
they have nothing to lose by risking the unknown.

   Which is why, on the morning before Thanksgiving, Becca was in surgery again
at Children's Hospital. Packer didn't dare wait until after Thanksgiving. The
tumor had doubled in size since August.

   Operating Room 3 was bustling toward surgical readiness. Thirty-six glossy
black-and-white negatives of Becca's brain were lit up on one wall.

   Becca lay unconscious, her auburn hair hanging over the edge of the operating
table, while neurosurgeon Schiff shaved her left temple. The amber disinfectant
mixed with her hair like shampoo.

   Schiff let the surgical team know he was feeling time pressure because of the
short-lived gene therapy cells, which had been prepared that morning. "I want
this out before the cells die," he said firmly. There were 14 people in the
room.

   Schiff popped a CD into the portable Sony. By operating room etiquette, the
chief surgeon gets to choose the background music, and Schiff chose Bach's cello
suites -- music he loves "but not enough to be distracted by it."

   The gene therapy cells had arrived, a tiny vial of cloudy liquid in a white
Styrofoam cooler. Debbie Lafond, the gene therapy project's chief nurse, checked
the label and announced that the cells were good until 1:08 p.m.

   "What!" exclaimed Schiff. He was stunned. He had understood that he would
have three hours. It was already past 11, and the cells would be dead in two
hours.

   Lafond explained that the cells had been thawed and sent early to beat rush
hour traffic in the freezing rain.

   "That doesn't help us," Schiff said. "They made 'em too early."

   He looked at the clock. There was no way he could have the tumor out within
two hours, he told Lafond. "Tell 'em to make up another batch and shuttle 'em
down here as fast as they can."

   Becca was out of sight, draped in blue-gray surgical sheets and buckled in
with a Velcro lap belt. Sixteen tubes and wires led to her from a soda
machine-sized bank of pumps, di als and digital monitors on her right. An oval
porthole in the surgical drapes exposed the upper left side of her head --
glistening and bald.

   Schiff and senior neurosurgical resident Ghassan Bejjani cut a sickle-shaped
flap of scalp above her ear and folded it forward. Gloved hands moved
efficiently back and forth over the surgical field, cutting, suctioning,
clamping, electrically sealing off blood vessels.

   Brain surgery like Becca's requires five incisions: first the skin, then the
muscles, the skull, the leathery protective membrane called the dura mater --
and finally the brain itself. It took the surgeons more than two hours just to
get a look at the tumor.

   They had to drill through the skull without tearing the membrane underneath,
and then move that membrane out of the way to get at the tumor -- all without
disturbing the brain and its blood supply. It is painstaking, intricate, bloody
work. "There's no way to rush," Schiff said.

   Becca's previous treatments made it all the more difficult. The skull
incision from her earlier surgery had been reinforced with three small titanium
plates, shaped like snowflakes and screwed into the bone.

   Schiff dislodged a jagged-edged disk of skull, a small saucer of bone, and
set it aside in a bowl of antiseptic solution. Now the only thing between the
surgeons and the tumor was the brain's outer membrane, hardened with scar tissue
from radiation. "Like cement," Schiff said. He paused occasionally to inspect
the ultrasound image of Becca's brain on the computer screen beside him. The
tumor was a small bright spot amid a pulsing mass of shadowy gray clouds.

   In all, Schiff would remove about a cubic inch of cancer, but it was not a
neat block or lump. It was countless bits of mushy, ragged tissue. "These tumors
have fingers, and they grow into the brain," he said. "That's why surgery can
never get it all."

   Nearly three hours into the operation, Schiff used forceps to lift out the
first specimen of tumor, a wad of gray like the end of a Q-Tip. He sent it
downstairs to the pathology lab, where it was quick-frozen, razor-sliced and
examined under a microscope to make sure it was cancerous -- not merely scar
tissue in disguise.

   Suddenly, it felt like a surgical halftime, a lull while the surgeons waited
for the pathology report. Because of a backlog in the lab, that took far longer
than expected. The anesthesiologists kept watch over the patient, who otherwise
seemed oddly abstract. The open wound in her head pulsed with each heartbeat.

   Between 1,500 and 2,000 children develop brain tumors each year in the United
States. Some 20 percent have the kind of tumor Becca has.

   The first hint of trouble for Becca had come in May 1991, two months before
her 11th birthday. She started having fierce migraine headaches. Occasionally
she'd get spacey, eyes glazing and her speech a little "off."

   Then one evening she blacked out with a seizure. Her parents called an
ambulance, and she wound up at Georgetown University Hospital for three days of
inconclusive tests. A magnetic resonance imaging scan, or MRI, showed a little
spot on her brain. The doctors thought at first it was a migraine that had
hemorrhaged.

   The spot grew. The surgeons confirmed that it was a brain tumor and took out
what they could. Radiation followed to slow down the rest.

   That held the tumor in check for nearly three years, until June 1994, when
Becca underwent surgery again at Georgetown. But two months later, an MRI showed
still more tumor growth. She went to Boston for experimental radiation
treatments, and the waiting began anew.

   Last fall, the tumor was back again -- a relapse or "recurrence."

   "At what point do you become a survivor?" Maureen Lilly wondered aloud. "I
guess you're a survivor if you're here the next day."

   Finally, the pathologist returned to the operating room with her report on
the first frozen specimen: malignant tumor. Schiff, with mini-binoculars poking
out from his glasses, resumed work. He cleaned out the visible cancer, then cut
six tiny specimens from the surrounding tissue, the tumor's margins. Each sample
was placed in a yellow-topped plastic cup, tagged and numbered, and rushed to
the lab. He'd continue to cut until the margins were found free of cancer.

   Another lull, more delays. Fortunately, the second batch of cells had arrived
from Gaithersburg, good till 5:15. The original batch was long past its
four-hour life span.

   An irony of brain surgery: After four-and-a-half hours, they had barely
touched Becca's brain. "We don't want to do much to her brain," Schiff said. The
point was to disrupt the brain as little as possible. Stretching across the
surgical cavity was a quivering thin red vein. The hardest part of the operation
had been the effort to leave that crucial vein alone. Most of what they had
taken out was tumor, and tumor, he noted, doesn't think.

   Becca is left-handed. Luckily, her capacity to speak and make sense of
language -- "the thing that makes us human," Schiff said -- lies in the right
brain, away from the tumor.

   When the pathology report on the six marginal specimens came back, four were
negative -- no evidence of tumor-and two positive. Schiff removed more tissue
and sent away two more specimens.

   It was time for the gene therapy. The cells were ready, in a test tube. They
looked like lemonade.

   Schiff sketched a map of Becca's brain incision on the back of a package of
rubber gloves. He poured the cells into a cup, called for a syringe and made
nine injections, spaced evenly around the well of the surgical cavity. Two
teaspoons in all, or about a billion cells. After each injection, he called out
the location and the amount so they could be recorded and marked on the
makeshift map.

   In less than five minutes, the climactic gene therapy part of the operation
was over. The surgical team turned to closing up the wound -- stitching up the
incisions with a combination of absorbable, nylon and black silk thread -- and
bringing Becca back to consciousness. She had been in the operating room for
more than eight hours.

   The Lillys were in the waiting room when Schiff arrived, still in surgical
scrubs. "Things went very well," he told them. In another hour, they could visit
her in the intensive care unit.

   Under a helmet of gauze, Becca was groggily blinking herself awake, sucking
on an ice cube. Her eyes itched and her hands were hot. What she wanted was
water.

   Her family is her rock. On the mantelpiece in the living room is a
Valentine's Day card from Becca to her mom and dad. "Thank you for everything
you've done," she wrote, "like when my cancer came back you were there for me 24
hours a day."

   "We live in flexibility," Maureen Lilly said.

   Joe Lilly's way of coping is to delve right in and be doing something. He's a
lawyer in solo practice, an ex-football coach. An All-Met lineman at Gonzaga
High in 1961 and second-team All-American at Holy Cross four years later, he
even tried out for the Redskins under Coach Vince Lombardi. Outwardly, he stays
calm, even when he has to hold his screaming daughter down while doctors try to
find a vein.

   Maureen Lilly, who runs a small trade association, is less stoic, more
communicative, no less involved. Becca's latest operation hit her mom even
harder emotionally than earlier ones, said Becca's 18-year-old sister, Anne
Marie. "I saw a lot more tears."

   It was Joe Lilly who, last November, told Becca that the cancer had come
back. He was driving her to Georgetown Hospital on a Tuesday morning. Before he
got the words out, she could tell it was bad.

   He also mentioned the new gene therapy experiment at Children's. He told her
nobody knew whether it would work. She didn't have to do it; she could say no.
They would talk about it later. The alternative was a kind of chemotherapy that
was also experimental -- or nothing.

   "I told him I didn't want to let the tumor grow," Becca recalled. "I want to
get rid of it."

   When the Lillys discussed the pros and cons of the experimental gene therapy
for her brain tumor, Becca was usually in the room. She's 15, after all, and her
life is at stake. She signed the daunting 10-page consent form that warned,
among other things, that the treatment could have "unknown and possibly
disabling effects or death."

   "We would never lie to a child," neurologist Packer said. "They're not
stupid. They know. Most of the time, children don't ask many questions. They may
ask, 'Could I die from this?' The answer is: Yes, to be honest, you could die
from this, but we're going to do everything we can to try not to let that
happen." It's also important for children to know that they are in no immediate
danger, he said. "It won't happen overnight."

   The day after her nine-hour brain surgery, Becca was out of the ICU, alert,
walking to the bathroom on her own. She even ate part of a hamburger and some
chocolate milkshake smuggled in from McDonald's.

   But that night turned hellish. About 3 a.m., her mother, sleeping on the sofa
bed in Becca's room, awoke to a crash. It was Becca's head hitting the floor.
Apparently in the midst of either a nightmare or a seizure, Becca had moved to
the foot of her bed, gone over the railing and fallen on her face, splitting her
upper lip and chipping a tooth.

   Packer can't say for sure what triggered it. The most likely explanation is a
seizure, an electrical short-circuit in the brain. But a seizure could have many
causes: inflammation from the surgery, the tumor itself, a bad reaction to
medication or the gene therapy injections.

   The next two days were miserable: a blur of blood draws and brain tests. The
doctors had to unwrap the bandages on her head and attach brain sensors to the
tender skin. She had three stitches in her lip. They kept adjusting her
medications. Sometimes she became disoriented or sick to her stomach, or both.
She saw double. She was exhausted, cranky, scared. She wanted out.

   Miraculously, her nosedive seemed not to have damaged her incision. After a
day of mostly sleep, she began to feel better. She asked for potato chips, a
good sign. A test showed that earlier worries about bleeding in her brain were
unfounded. "Thank God, a victory," said a war-weary Maureen Lilly.

   "It's hard to think long-term," she said. Each day was a succession of
crises. The doctors always seemed to call for another scan, another needle
stick, and who could argue with their medical logic? She found herself nodding
yes to test after test, when what she really wanted to say was: Why can't they
just leave her alone?

   She herself had brought all sorts of time-passers to the hospital:
embroidery, a batch of photos to sort, a novel. Useless. She gave up on her
novel after finding she had read the same page six times.

   Two days later, in a stunning turnaround, they were going home. The doctors
knew it was time. For one thing, the tests were coming back normal. For another,
Becca was having her hair done. "If they're worrying about how they look,"
Packer said, "it's usually time to send them home."

   Her mom and Anne Marie had the delicate job of combing out the five-day
tangles and aiming the blow-dryer so it wouldn't hit the raw question mark of
stitches above her left ear.

   Packing up took longer: 13 balloons, a wallful of get-well posters, candy
baskets, flowers, a menagerie of stuffed animals and leftover stashes of
cookies, Twizzlers, Gummi Bears, peppermint patties, hot chocolate mix.

   Becca was upbeat. Clean hair. No double vision as she watched "Mighty Ducks
II" on video. She aced all of Packer's neurological tests. When neurosurgeon
Schiff came by, Becca gave him a teenage patient's highest accolade: The
surgical haircut was a 10.

   By noon they were driving up North Capitol in the family van, Becca riding
shotgun, her tan velvet hat covering the scar.

   "You feel okay?" her mom asked.

   "Just tired."

   Minutes later, Becca walked into the living room of their Takoma Park home,
flopped down on the sofa, closed her eyes and conked out. Her hat was still on.
She didn't wake up for three hours.

   By itself, the gene that had been injected into Becca's brain was powerless
against her tumor. But doctors hoped a drug would complete the gene therapy
experiment's one-two punch.

   Two weeks after her surgery, Becca began intravenous doses of an anti-herpes
drug called ganciclovir. She was given the drug not for herpes, but because the
gene they had injected into her brain, the thymidine kinase or TK gene, is
hypersensitive to it.

   A gene is a segment of DNA within a cell. Each gene contains a code
instructing the cell to make proteins or other vital substances. The TK gene,
for example, tells a cell to make TK, a protein that happens to become highly
toxic when it reacts with ganciclovir.

   If the gene therapy was working, the virus had infiltrated the remaining
tumor cells in Becca's brain, smuggling in its payload of TK genes. By now, they
should have sabotaged the tumor cells into producing plenty of TK. It was time
to send in the ganciclovir to kill them off.

   The first intravenous infusion of ganciclovir took place at Children's. Then,
after a training session at home, the twice-a-day treatments became the home
team's job.

   Joe Lilly took charge of the home infusion routine. He liked setting up the
equipment, measuring out the exact doses, keeping track of it all -- the T
connector and the K lock, the saline wash and heparin flush. "Medicine is his
second calling," Maureen Lilly said. "I'm not a blood person."

   Every morning and evening for two weeks, Becca settled into a rocking chair
in the living room, next to a seven-foot IV pole on wheels, with a clear plastic
bag of fluid and tubing curling down. Her father worked the air bubbles out of
the tube and connected it to the blue plastic clamp on Becca's arm.

   The slow-drip infusion began, two drops a second into a special catheter
inserted the week before, a spaghetti-thin tube that entered Becca's arm at the
bicep and threaded through a vein to just outside her heart. It took less than
an hour, and she felt only a slight coolness in the vein.

   The infusions seemed almost anticlimactic. They didn't hurt, but neither did
they make any difference in how she felt. Was it working? There was no quick way
to tell.

   One of the many frustrations of treating a child with a brain tumor, Packer
said, is that "there's nothing we can check right away. Wait and watch: The
longer we go without any problems, the happier we are."

   There have been two especially scary moments for Becca since her gene therapy
. The first came in late December. Christmas had been wonderfully nonmedical,
everyone at home and Becca feeling better than she had in some time. Then the
roller coaster dipped again. During a funeral mass for Joe Kozik, the legendary
coach and athletic director at Gonzaga, Becca had another spell. "Something went
across her brain," her father said. She went wobbly, seeing double, and by the
time they got her to the car, she was ghostly pale and spitting up. He drove her
straight to the emergency room.

   "I felt like I was going in a circle, upside down," Becca said.

   By evening, she was fine. The scan of her brain was normal. What had
happened? Another seizure? Did her anti-seizure medicine get out of whack? A
reaction to the gene therapy? Packer was uncertain. "As long as she's feeling
better," he said, "that's all we really care about."

   It happened again the last Friday in February. In history class, her head
started to ache and words on the blackboard swam. Becca wobbled to the nurse's
office, and her mom rushed over from work. Becca climbed into the van, and
Maureen Lilly started to back out of the parking lot. As soon as the vehicle
moved, Becca freaked. Nothing inside or outside would hold still for her, and
she was throwing up. She yelled at her mother to stop and wouldn't let her drive
an inch.

   "Everything is spinning, just like December," Becca screamed. She was
terrified.

   Maureen Lilly called Joe, and eventually the two of them drove Becca to the
clinic. Her temperature was abnormally low, her feet cold, blood pressure
unsteady. Doctors put an IV in, to replenish her fluids. Becca fell asleep, and
three hours later she was okay.

   The Lillys measure out their lives in MRIs.

   "Families learn to live from scan to scan," Packer said. "Probably the worst
time for them is the 24 hours before any scan."

   Every month since her surgery last November, Becca has returned to Children's
for a neurological checkup by Packer and another MRI. He puts her through the
ritual: "How many fingers? . . . Okay. . . . Now look at my nose, biggest thing
in the room. . . . Cover one eye. . . . How many now? . . . Watch my hand. . . .
Good. . . . Over here. . . . Close your eyes. . . . Hands out, palms up. . . .
Count to five slowly. . . . Fine. . . . Touch your finger to the tip of your
nose. . . . Now here. . . . And back. . . . Okay, hop down. . . . Turn around. .
. . Feet together, walk. . . .

   "Fine. Let's get you scanned."

   An MRI is a big computerized, doughnut-shaped magnet. It surrounds the
patient and uses radio signals to make detailed cross-sectional pictures of soft
tissues, like the brain, that on a conventional X-ray would be obscured by bone.
It's also a rackety machine the size of a bread truck.

   Becca is an old hand at MRI scans. She's had dozens. "I just lie there and
think of things I'm going to do," she said. "Sometimes I even fall asleep."

   She knows the drill. No metal allowed. Earrings come off, earplugs go in ("so
I still can't get my ears pierced, which is driving me bonkers"). She lies down
under a blanket on the bedtable. The machine goes chug-chug-chug like an
old-fashioned washing machine. She slides headfirst backward out of sight into
the machine. A rearview mirror allows her to see the technicians monitoring her
from the next room. A percussive sound like a bongo drum begins above the
chugging, then one like a pneumatic drill breaking up pavement. The time ticks
away on the green digital readout above the opening where her feet stick out.
Midway, a nurse injects a contrast dye into Becca's bloodstream to highlight any
inflammation or bleeding in her brain on the second set of scans.

   Inflammation shows up on the black-and-white MRI scan as a dye-enhanced
bright spot -- or "enhancement." What the doctors are hoping to see is not a
shrinking tumor -- surgery cut out the visible part of the tumor last November
-- but an absence of new tumor growth. Inflammation could indicate another
relapse.

   Becca's December MRI, her first since leaving the hospital after gene therapy
, showed some inflammation around the tumor cavity, where the gene-carrying
virus had been injected. Was it normal post-surgery inflammation, or the tumor
growing back?

   The January scan looked better. There was no sign of new cancer, and the
inflammation around the gene therapy injections had died down, Packer said.
Since then, it has neither disappeared nor grown. Her most recent scan, 10 days
ago, showed no change from the month before -- and no visible tumor.

   A clean MRI scan is temporarily reassuring, but by no means perfect. The
smallest tumor an MRI can detect is about the size of the letter "o" in this
sentence. It can't pick up microscopic growth, and cancer cells are mi cro sco p
ic.

   The Lillys keep copies of all Becca's MRI scans. Each month, Joe Lilly holds
the shiny negatives up to the light, trying to compare the latest one with the
one before. But the copies are never exactly comparable -- never the identical
size or angle. "It drives him crazy," Maureen Lilly said.

   "This tumor is amazing," Joe Lilly mused one day while Becca was inside the
MRI machine. An invisible, thoughtless thing -- this cellular terrorist -- had
held his daughter and his family hostage for more than four years. It wasn't
like on the football field, or in the courtroom.

   "It's not as if you can sit down with a tumor and negotiate and say, 'Look,
you leave Becca alone and we'll leave you alone,'" her father said.

   The toughest thing is living in the shadow of a terrible prognosis, said
Becca's sister, Anne Marie, who's studying to be a nurse. "You check the MRI and
say: So far, so good. You just kind of go along.

   "But you're always waiting for something to happen, and hoping it won't."

   Becca herself doesn't seem to dwell on it. Sometimes she'll mention the
unfairness -- her word -- of a relapse. Her parents can tell when she is scared.
Her eyes dart back and forth, and she gets even quieter.

   On her second day back at school last January, Becca came down with what
turned out to be flu. When a child has cancer, any symptom packs extra
throw-weight. Maureen Lilly could tell Becca was scared. She was scared herself.
"You're always suspicious for cancer," she said.

   When doctors inserted the infusion catheter into her arm, they saw it as
fairly routine, especially compared with nine-hour brain surgery. Not to Becca.
It meant more needle sticks. To a child with small veins, every white-coated
person in the hospital is a potential needle coming at her.

   But usually, Becca's attitude is "just truck on through," her sister said.
When she gets an MRI, she leaves it to her parents to discuss the results with
the doctor. "It's her defense mechanism," said Anne Marie.

   "You're not sure what's going to happen," Becca said. "You just go on with
your life until it happens and try to have a good life. You don't know how long
you're going to live. I could, like, die tomorrow, and I'd be in the worst mood.
What good would that do?"

   She thinks it's "pretty funky" that her birthday is in July, making Cancer
her astrological sign. At 15, her parents say, she has little sense of the big
picture, the long term. Yet what's bigger than living with brain cancer?

   "She lives in the present," her dad said. "Everything in the present."

   Hair is a big deal with Becca -- she's a teenager. It was also the most
obvious sign of her illness -- falling out after radiation or getting shaved for
surgery. In 1991, after her first radiation, Becca picked out a long, expensive
wig that was too blond, impossible to brush and sweltering in midsummer. She can
joke about it now.

   School isn't easy for Becca. She has dyslexia. Her IQ dropped more than 20
points between 1991 and last year, an effect of the radiation treatments. She
suffers occasional memory lapses. Sometimes she has to fish mentally for a
common everyday name, or mixes up related words, switching yesterday and
tomorrow, or days of the week.

   Most weeks, she misses at least a day of school. Spells of wooziness often
come over her early in the morning. "Sometimes I feel like I'm going to fall
over when I walk," she said.

   Yet she's not restricted much by doctor's orders. She went sledding after the
Blizzard of '96. She went skiing in West Virginia with a group of cancer
patients and -- wearing her shiny white helmet -- "fell a ton of times."

   She also played CYO basketball, for St. Bernadette's in the Senior Girls
league. At the first practice in January, she was too tired to do more than
watch. A month later, she was in the middle of the action. "I put my hair up in
a ponytail, and you could see my scar, but I didn't really care," Becca said
after her first game.

   "She's very independent," coach Mike McGinn said. "She hasn't asked for
anything special, and I've never heard her complain."

   This summer Becca plans to revisit Camp Fantastic in Front Royal, Va., a
week-long camp for kids with cancer run by a group called Special Love -- her
fourth season. "Her buddies from there," Anne Marie said, "are her buddies for
life."

   Could it work?

   "I've been doing this too long to call victory early," neurologist Packer
said. If Becca's tumor is going to come back, he said last November, the chances
are that it will happen within 18 months. The likelihood of a recurrence would
decline more sharply after that. Another 18 months -- three years in all -- and
Packer would be "very optimistic it will never grow back."

   He quickly added, "That's a lot of scans from now."

   Two weeks after Becca's surgery, a panel of 14 scientists reported to the
National Institutes of Health their appraisal of the state of gene therapy.
Despite its extraordinary potential, the panel said, gene therapy faces major
obstacles and unknowns. Its current usefulness to patients has been oversold by
scientists and the news media, they concluded. "While the expectations and
promise of gene therapy are great, clinical efficacy has not been definitely
established at this time in any gene therapy protocol."

   Packer knows as well as anyone that gene therapy is experimental and
unproven. "We are in uncharted waters and we have to move carefully," he said.
He knows that the first try at treating brain tumors with gene therapy is
unlikely to work spectacularly and may not work at all.

   He also knows that he has patients dying of brain tumors that he has no
treatment for.

   It's easy to be "objective" about experimental cancer treatments "when you
don't have to sit across the table from parents and tell them you have nothing
to offer their child," Packer said.

   In broaching the possibility of gene therapy with parents, he must admit how
much remains unknown. "I can't tell them gene therapy is a cure," Packer said.
"I can tell them it is relatively safe and reasonable and has a chance of
working. No matter what I tell them, I think they're hoping their child will be
the first to be cured by this treatment."

   All their natural questions -- Will it work? How will my child fare? -- can
only be addressed with hopeful uncertainty and candor. "At this level of
testing," Packer said, "you never know the answers to those questions."

   Becca has a book called "An Alphabet About Kids With Cancer," by a group
called The Children's Legacy in Denver. It's filled with photographs of
patients, doctors and famous people who had cancer, like Babe Ruth. Each letter
gets a page of pictures and a page of thoughts: A is for Aches, B is for Body, C
is for Cancer, etc. In the back are 26 blank pages for kids to turn into their
own cancer alphabet. Last year, Becca started filling in those blank pages, A
through Z.

   In Becca's version, A is for Anger -- "when you have a relapse, when your
doctor tells you cancer has come back, when you don't know what's going on, when
you are mad because you have to have another operation."

   M is for MRIs.

   R is for Relapse.

   W is for Worrys and Wishes. She knows each worry is the flip side of a wish.
She worries that "when I get married and have children I won't be able to read
to them" -- because of her dyslexia. She wishes her cancer would "go away for
good" and "not come back a 3rd time (but it did)."

   Y is for Yo-yo. Below the word she has drawn a yellow yo-yo on a string. It's
labeled "my life."


GRAPHIC: Photo, james a. parcell, Above, surgeon Steven J. Schiff removes the
first specimen of Becca's brain tumor. At top, Becca's parents and her older
sister (in the middle) visit her in the intensive care unit immediately after
her nine-hour surgery. At right, neurologist Roger J. Packer tests Becca's
reflexes and coordination five days after her surgery.  Surrounded by stuffed
animals and gifts in her room at Children's Hospital just before going home,
Becca chats on the phone with a friend. As soon as she arrives at her Takoma
Park house, she falls asleep for three hours on the living room couch.  As part
of the gene therapy, Joe Lilly gives Becca an intravenous drug that doctors hope
will help kill her tumor cells. Maureen Lilly watches while holding 4-year-old
Sarah. Becca received the drug twice a day for two weeks. Below, Becca with her
brother Joe, 11, the day before her surgery.  Less than two months after her
surgery, Becca was able to start playing basketball in a CYO league. She also
went sledding and skiing this winter.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996April 02, 1996


                             2884 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 02, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z17

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy: 'A Whole New Concept'

BYLINE: Don Colburn

BODY:


   Gene therapy is a catch-all term for efforts to treat an illness by altering
the genes inside a patient's cells.

   A new gene may be delivered into cells to repair an inherited genetic defect,
treat diseased cells directly or, as in Rebecca Lilly's case, make the cells
more sensitive to another treatment.

   "We're very excited about this," said Cory Raffel, a neurosurgeon at the Mayo
Clinic and chief of the pediatric brain tumor gene therapy test in which Becca
is the first patient. "But it's absolutely experimental therapy. We're trying to
see if it works. We don't know yet."

   Such tests are first steps in "a long, long journey," said Stephen G. Marcus,
vice president of Genetic Therapy Inc. (GTI), a biotechnology company in
Gaithersburg. "What we're dealing with is a whole new concept of medicine." Gene
therapy someday may allow doctors not merely to treat the results of a disease,
as current cancer therapies do, but "to get at its root cause -- to get into the
genetic material of a cell and fix it," Marcus said.

   In Becca's case, the hope is that smuggling a gene into the tumor cells in
her brain will make them cooperate -- under the influence of a follow-up drug --
in their own destruction.

   That may sound simple, but finding a way to sneak the gene safely inside
tumor cells is a huge challenge. It requires scientists to outsmart defenses the
body has developed to protect itself against just such an invasion.

   First, they needed what gene therapists call a vector -- a microscopic
"taxicab" to deliver the gene into the cells. They hit on a Trojan horse
approach, using some of nature's most ingenious spies: viruses.

   "Viruses are very efficient and phenomenally brilliant at getting into cells
and causing dreadful problems," Marcus said. The trick in gene therapy is to
harness a virus's ability to invade a cell -- without letting it do any harm.

   The taxicab that carried the crucial gene into Becca's brain was derived from
a virus that was disabled in the lab so that it could no longer reproduce and
cause disease. But it could still deliver its passenger, the gene, behind enemy
lines. "It's like having a little spy in there that will sabotage the tumor
cells," said the Mayo Clinic's Raffel.

   Human brain cells stop reproducing at a very young age. That may be a
dismaying thought to aging adults, but to gene therapists it signals a crucial
advantage. The gene-toting virus injected into Becca's brain targets only
dividing cells. Since cancer cells are the most rapidly dividing cells in the
brain, the virus homes in on the tumor while leaving the normal brain alone.

   "Will it get into enough tumor cells? That's a big question," said Roger J.
Packer, director of the brain tumor program at Children's National Medical
Center. The virus may not need to invade every tumor cell; studies suggest that
when some tumor cells are killed, others nearby also die. Doctors call it "the
bystander effect."

   After studies in rats showed promise, the method was tried in 30 adult
humans, beginning in 1992. The results have not yet been published, but
scientists familiar with them say they were encouraging. In the cautious wording
of the consent form the Lilly family signed: "Several patients showed a decrease
in tumor size after this treatment."

   "This is not the panacea, but it is the beginning, the first crude step,"
said Mitchel S. Berger, a neurosurgeon at the University of Washington who has
treated adult brain cancer patients with gene therapy. "We've seen some
fascinating results."

   With approval from the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug
Administration, the study in children will include 15 patients -- at Children's
Hospital here, the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, Children's Hospital in Los Angeles
and the University of Washington in Seattle. The treatment costs between $
25,000 and $ 50,000, including follow-up brain scans and blood work. The gene
therapy part of Becca's treatment is paid for by GTI, which developed the
technology and holds exclusive marketing rights.

   Gene therapy is not "one big thing that either works or doesn't," GTI's
Marcus said. It's an array of new attacks on diseases for which medicine has no
good answer. Becca Lilly's therapy, for example, is not aimed at replacing a
missing gene or fixing a genetic defect or changing her genetic makeup.

   "We're not making a fat person thin," Berger said. "We're not doing anything
to their personality or their appearance or their psyche or their soul. We're
trying to make the tumor go away."

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996April 02, 1996


                             2885 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                     April 02, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06; FINDINGS

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy and AIDS

BODY:


   Gene therapy aimed at keeping critical immune cells alive might help people
infected with the AIDS virus, according to a small-scale study published today.

   In a study of three HIV-positive subjects, scientists extracted immune-system
T cells that the virus attacks, genetically modified them with an antiviral gene
and then returned them to the respective patients.

   The study, reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
indicated that gene therapy kept the crucial cells alive four to five times
longer than unmodified cells.

   The goal of the therapy is to help the immune cells fight off HIV, which
attacks the body's defense against disease, to prolong the period between the
time a person is diagnosed as HIV-positive and the time when the symptoms of
AIDS occur.

   "This pilot study suggests that gene transfer can be used to prolong the
survival of CD4 T cells and may ultimately help to sustain the immune systems of
HIV-infected people," said the study's author, Gary Nabel of the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute at the University of Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 1996April 02, 1996


                             2886 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                         March 28, 1996 Thursday Final

SECTION: News Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: MEDICAL COLLEGE RECEIVES GRANT
 Study seeks to link genes to hypertension
 Researchers focusing on French Canadians, local African-Americans

BYLINE: JOE MANNING

SOURCE: Journal Sentinel staff

BODY:

   Medical College of Wisconsin researchers hope to track down the genes that
cause high blood pressure by studying a group of remote French Canadians and
African-Americans in Milwaukee.

   With the help of a five-year, $8.2 million grant from the National Institutes
of Health, researchers plan to peer into the genetic makeup of related French
Canadian residents of Chicoutimi-Saguenay-Lac St. Jean area of northern Quebec,
the largest genetically isolated community in North America.

   They will simultaneously study 400 pairs of African-American siblings in
Milwaukee who have both high blood pressure and high cholesterol.

   The French Canadians, descendants of 12 Frenchmen who came to Canada 350
years ago, have the same rates of hypertension as other whites, but they are in
the study because of their well-defined genetic pool, said Allen Cowley Jr., a
professor of physiology at the college and program director for the grant.

   The search is the first in the world to look for the genes involved in a
complex disorder such as high blood pressure, Cowley said. Previous gene
research has looked for single genes responsible for rare genetic conditions, he
said.

   Hypertension affects 25% of the nation's population, Cowley said. Because it
is 50% higher among blacks than whites, blacks are being sought here for the
study, he said.

   In addition to having a higher rate among blacks, high blood pressure also
tends to affect blacks more severely than whites at earlier ages, said Theodore
Kotchen, chairman of the medical college's department of medicine and
co-director with Cowley of the research project.

   If not brought under control, high blood pressure can result in stroke, heart
failure, enlarged heart, end-stage kidney disease and death, he said.

   The study also will map and examine the genes of rats bred to have high blood
pressure, on the theory that if the locations of the genes can be found in rats,
it can lead to their discovery in humans, Kotchen said.

   Kotchen said he believes "there is an important environmental interaction"
behind higher rates of hypertension among blacks.

   If inherited black genes for hypertension are found to be no different than
white genes for high blood pressure, then environmental factors, ranging from
diet to stress, contribute to making the disease worse among blacks, Kotchen
said.

   "I predict that high blood pressure genes are not unique to one racial
group," Kotchen said.

   Cowley said at least four or five genes are involved in high blood pressure.
If those genes could be detected early possibly even in childhood physicians
could "be more aggressive about preventive strategies."

   Patients could be warned to restrict diets, as well as taking steps to reduce
stress in their lives and exercise, Kotchen said. Cowley said knowing the
specific genes involved would also help to better tailor specific drug
treatments for individual patients.

   Eventually, advances in gene therapy may allow the troublesome genes to be
modified "and truly cause a cure," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996


                             2887 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            March 28, 1996 Thursday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Researchers report gains in `molecular tag' study

BYLINE: DAVID GRAHAM, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Chemotherapies can provide a powerful punch against tumor cells, but
sometimes they must be administered in small doses because the treatments can
cause other damage, too. They can, for example, weaken the immune system.

   Doctors have long dreamed of being able to target such powerful drugs to the
site where they're needed, bypassing all healthy tissues. And they have designed
such "magic bullets" by attaching drugs to antibody molecules that anchor only
to specific places in the body.

   But this approach has had its limits. Now, researchers at the Burnham
Institute in La Jolla have demonstrated a technique for finding smaller,
potentially more efficient protein molecules that may be able to deliver drugs
to specific addresses in the body. Based on work in mice, the scientists report
in today's issue of the journal Nature that they produced molecules that attach
only to blood vessels in the brain and others that attach only to molecules in
the kidney. Theoretically, say molecular biologists Erkki Ruoslahti and Renata
Pasqualini, a drug attached to such a "molecular tag" would only go the one
site, delivering its chemical time bomb there, sparing other tissue. "One can
take the targeting devices and couple them to drug, or even genes or a cell,"
said Ruoslahti, who also is president of the Burnham Institute. "But this is
only the beginning for this technology." Ruoslahti now is looking for unique
tags that would seek out the blood vessels of tumor cells, a potentially more
valuable target for the delivery of chemotherapy.

   If a tumor's blood supply is interrupted, he explained, the tumor cannot
grow. Even so, it could be years before tags developed by the new method are
perfected for use in therapies, Ruoslahti said. Theodore Friedmann, director of
UCSD's gene therapy program, praised the technique as "full of promise." "This
kind of work is exceedingly important," Friedmann said of attempts to target
drugs. The antibody approach proved difficult to engineer and too often it was
difficult to deliver drugs in adequate amounts.

   The newly reported technique suggests a way to develop tags for virtually any
site in the body, he said. The treatment of disease with genes, still in its
early stages, could move along more quickly with better means of targeting the
genes to specific sites in the body, Friedmann said. To find the new tags,
Ruoslahti used a number of tools from the molecular biologist's tool chest. He
induced displays of randomly shaped protein structures on the outer coatings of
viruses, then injected the viruses into mice.

   The viruses migrated through the animals' bodies docking with receptors that
had a complimentary shape. The researchers were interested in the brain and
kidney so they took those organs and isolated the viruses that lodged there,
then isolated the DNA that makes the specific receptor structure.

   This gave them a template from which to build an infinite number of identical
molecules by growing the molecules in bacteria. Since the chemical structure of
the molecular tags is so simple, they also can be made synthetically, Ruoslahti
said. Chemicals for fighting cancer are not the only therapies that could be
attached to such tags.

   Besides therapeutic genes, whole cells might be tagged for delivery, too.

   White blood cells, a component of the immune system that can fight cancer,
could be targeted to go to a specific site, Ruoslahti said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2888 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                     March 26, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Oncor to develop gene therapy for obesity; Treatment's human trials at
least 1 to 4 years away; Biotechnology

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Oncor Inc., the Gaithersburg-based biotechnology company, said yesterday that
it is entering the race to develop a way to control obesity by targeting one of
its genetic causes, in this case a mutation in a gene that controls how calories
are stored.

   "We believe this holds major revenue opportunities for testing and
therapeutics," said Stephen Turner, Oncor's president and chief executive
officer.

   Oncor joins a growing list of biotechnology and pharmaceutical houses, such
as Amgen and Hoffman-LaRoche, which are attempting to develop anti-obesity
treatments based on discoveries about the role of the body's many complex
biological mechanisms that control appetite and weight.

   Company executives at Oncor's subsidiary, OncorPharm -- set up to develop
gene therapies -- said they could launch limited human trials on the obesity
therapy within one to four years. However, developing and getting approval to
market such a therapy for obesity in the United States could take eight to 12
years.

   The company also hopes to develop a test for the genetic mutation. That could
be available in one to three years depending on regulatory approval, company
executives said. The company also hopes to make money from licensing out
information about the mutation to companies developing treatments for other
ailments.

   Still, it's the potential market for a therapy correcting the gene mutation,
that holds the most promise for profit.

   An estimated 4 million Americans -- 6.4 percent of the population -- have the
mutation.

   The mutation occurs in what is referred to as the beta-3 adrenergic receptor,
a molecule that is found on the surface of tissue lining the stomach and
intestines. It controls the rate at which the body metabolizes calories.

   Research has found that people who have the mutation burn fewer calories as
heat and store more as fat, said Dr. William Ryan, president and chief executive
officer of OncorPharm.

   He said the genetic therapy company scientists hope to target the mutation by
injecting a small molecule made of DNA, the basic material of all cell
nucleuses.

   The molecule would then seek out and bind with the kink or break in the
mutated receptor affecting how calories are stored and burned. Enzymes in the
body, whose job it is to correct such kinks and breaks, would be alerted by the
molecule to repair the mutation.

   No one has yet developed a genetic therapy that has been clinically proven to
work, though many researchers say that in 20 years gene treatments will be
available, if not common.

   Dr. Ryan said the therapy, if ever developed and approved for marketing,
would be given only to overweight people whose families have a clear history of
obesity and the complications it can cause, such as high blood pressure.

   A patient probably would have about 40 injections of the molecule therapy
over a year's time at a estimated cost of $ 10,000.

   "That may seem expensive, but in the long-term it would save a lot of money
by avoiding the many medical complications and expenses caused by obesity," said
Mr. Turner.

   The receptor mutation was discovered by Dr. Alan Shuldiner at the Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine. Oncor struck a licensing agreement with
Dr. Shuldiner and the school.

   The agreement calls for Oncor to provide an undisclosed up-front payment and
undisclosed royalties to Dr. Shuldiner. Oncor also will fund his research on the
receptor for five years, said Mr. Turner.

   OncorPharm's Dr. Ryan said the gene mutation that Oncor has licensed is one
of what scientists say is a group of between 30 and 40 genes and other
biological elements that contribute to obesity, a disease on which Americans
spent millions of dollars last year.

   For example, British researchers announced in January that they had found the
protein that tells the brain when the body should stop eating. The discovery of
the protein's role in suppressing appetite came on the heels of a discovery of a
hormone, called leptin, which controls body weight.

   Such discoveries are the focus of intense research at major pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies attempting to develop anti-obesity drug treatments.

   For example, Amgen, the California-based biotechnology company, has launched
early human clinical trials of a leptin injection aimed at controlling weight
gain in overweight people.

   OncorPharm's Dr. Ryan said the genetic therapy the company hopes to develop
"may very well be used to complement other obesity therapies," such as the one
Amgen is developing.

   Pub Date: 3/26/96

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996


                             2889 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                   March 26, 1996 Tuesday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SCI; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: THE FUTURE OF HAIR HELPERS NEW DRUGS ARE COMING, BUT GENE THERAPY MAY
BE THE REAL BALDNESS CURE

BYLINE: FRED TASKER Knight-Ridder Newspapers

BODY:

   A spark of hope pulses in the psyches of America's males (and some females)
with the announcement of a mid-April kickoff for over-the-counter sale of the
anti hair-loss drug Rogaine.

   No doctor visit needed. A drop in price from $60 a month to $30. And perhaps
the dreaded prospect of going bald can be, if not conquered, at least held a
while longer at bay.

   But Rogaine is only a baby step.

   It grows good hair for fewer than half of those who use it. The rest get
listless stalks, baby fuzz or nothing. It's good at slowing the loss of existing
hair, dermatologists say, but unlikely to give us back the Samson-like strands
for which our vanity pines.

   Isn't there something better out there? Won't there ever be a cure?

   Take heart. The answers are: maybe and maybe.

   Gushing down the testing pipeline, even as we shed, are new anti-baldness
drugs that may be better than Rogaine. These are drugs that we will pop in pill
form instead of rubbing tediously into the scalp, that cut the wait for results
from six months to three, that grow thicker hair and do a better job of fending
off fallout.

   And in 10 years, maybe 20, there could be something radically new -- gene
therapy that would go straight to the inherited bits of matter that predispose
us to lose our hair and replace them with more cooperative ones.

   At last, a cure.

   How we would rejoice.

   "People want this so bad they can taste it," says Plantation, Fla.,
dermatologist Joel Wilentz.

   Here's a synopsis of what's coming, and how soon.

   For now, it's Rogaine

   For the next couple of years, at least, we will have to concentrate on
Rogaine, a 2 percent solution of the drug minoxidil, created to fight high blood
pressure.

   How good is it? Depends on whom you ask. The maker, Pharmacia & Upjohn, says
it tested 2,300 patients and found that, after four months, 41 percent had no
improvement; 33 percent, minimal growth and 26 percent, moderate to dense
growth.

   If you start out bald, its label says to expect baby fuzz at first: "After
further treatment the new hair should be the same color and thickness as the
other hair on your scalp. If you start with substantial hair, the new hair
should be of the same color and thickness as the rest of your hair."

   Dermatologists who work regularly with Rogaine are sometimes less effusive.

   Says Wilentz: "It's rare that somebody (using Rogaine) will come in and say,
'My God, don't I look great?' "

   Rogaine works better on the crown than near the front, says Kendall, Fla.,
dermatologist Bernard Cohen. The new hair is often short and limp, he says, but
he likes Rogaine's ability to keep the hair you've got.

   "I tell patients Rogaine will stop hair from falling out in 85 or 90 percent
of cases, in front and back. It does that pretty well, although over time it
works less and less well."

   Worse, we have to use it every day, carefully daubing our heads with eye
droppers to make sure it hits the scalp, where it's needed.

   And we have to take it forever: $30 a month, $360 a year, $3,600 a decade.

   "I also tell patients that if you stop using Rogaine after five years, you
will lose five years of hair in one month," says Cohen, also a professor of
surgical training at the University of Miami's medical school. "It's very
demoralizing."

   Doctors try combos

   Some dermatologists try to give Rogaine a boost by adding Retin-A, the
anti-wrinkle drug, to increase its absorption.

   "A few dermatologists swear by it," says Marty Sawaya, a dermatologist and
researcher at the University of Florida. "But Upjohn did trials a few years ago,
and it didn't seem to show any difference."

   A more fruitful branch of study, Sawaya says, is the use of stronger Rogaine.

   "With 2 percent Rogaine over the counter now," she says, "Upjohn is seeking
FDA approval for a prescription dosage of 5 percent. At 5 percent it works much
better. It may keep the hair you have. It may thicken them. And it may work in
five to six months instead of eight."

   Stronger Rogaine is probably a couple of years away, Sawaya said.

   Even then it would be by prescription, Cohen adds. Ongoing tests will
determine whether stronger levels might get into the bloodstream. And Rogaine,
when taken internally against high blood pressure, has serious side effects,
from fluid retention to irregular heartbeat.

   Prostate drug may work better

   Proscar, a drug created to fight prostate enlargement, seems to fight hair
loss for the same reason: It blocks the enzymes that turn garden-variety
testosterone into a more potent form that also happens to threaten hair.

   "It's no miracle cure, but my sense is that it's a little more effective than
Rogaine," says New Jersey dermatologist Darrell Weiss, who is studying Proscar
as a baldness treatment.

   Advantage: Proscar is a pill, which makes it much easier to take than
Rogaine.

   Problem: Proscar, given at 5 milligrams to treat prostate trouble, results in
sexual dysfunction in a tiny percentage of patients. In Weiss' hair-loss
experiments, the drug is given in doses closer to 1 milligram. "The lower the
dose, the less risk of side effect," he says.

   FDA approval of low doses of Proscar for hair loss is at least a couple of
years away, Weiss said.

   Meanwhile, some dermatologists are prescribing it anyway, instructing
patients to take it at the full 5 milligrams or to try to cut the 5-milligram
pills into smaller pieces. Using any drug for purposes the FDA hasn't approved
could, of course, lead to legal difficulties if problems were to arise.

   "I'm aware that it goes on," Weiss said. "I don't recommend it."

   Drug companies won't even talk about such "off-label" use.

   John Bloomfield, spokesman for Merck, which makes Proscar: "We stress that
Proscar is not approved for use in anything other than treating benign prostate
disease."

   Some dermatologists recommend Rogaine and Proscar together.

   "If Proscar is used in conjunction with Rogaine, the benefit is better than
either alone," says Weiss.

   Again, he stresses, this is not FDA-approved.

   French drug could be best

   In any case, a new drug called RU58841 soon may overtake both Rogaine and
Proscar.

   This drug, by Roussel-Uclaf, the French firm that makes the controversial
"morning-after" birth-control pill, doesn't have a name yet. But it soon may, if
tests on humans go as well as recent tests on animals.

   "With monkeys," Sawaya said, "RU58841 brought significant hair growth in
three months. Proscar took six months, and Rogaine needed six to eight months."

   Similar to testosterone in structure, RU58841 competes with the hormone to
fill up the linkages in the body's androgen receptors, thus preventing
testosterone from doing its hair- destroying dirty work, she says.

   If human trials start by year's end, RU58841 could be on the market in three
or four years.

   Drawbacks: It probably would require a prescription, cost about as much as
prescription Rogaine, and would still have to be applied to the scalp every day.
Still a treatment, not a cure.

   Down the road: Gene therapy

   Other coming anti-baldness drugs sound like science fiction, even though they
may be only four or five years away.

   A prime example is called anti-sense technology, in which a drug goes
straight past the follicle or hair-cell level to the body's very DNA. Instead of
just blocking the enzyme that changes testosterone, it prevents the enzyme from
being produced.

   At present, anti-sense technology is being studied by researchers fighting
life-threatening diseases like leukemia and deadly viruses, rather than hair
loss. But success in one area would quickly spin off uses in other areas.

   "I have a lot of hope for it," Sawaya says. "I think it could be much more
successful than Rogaine."

   Disadvantage: Daily application forever. Still, no cure.

   This, at last, could be a cure. Some time in the next 10 or 20 years,
scientists will know how to screen children for the baldness gene and, if they
find it, use a prescribed drug to replace it with a friendlier gene.

   But will the drug companies let us have it?

   "Gene therapy would be a cure," Sawaya said. "Drug companies don't want that.
They want something you have to use every day. They might charge $10,000 or
$20,000 for a cure."

   Envision prospective parents setting up baldness-cure trust funds right along
with college education nest eggs . . .

   The last bald generation?

   Maybe we can't wait for all this. Maybe we don't like drugs. Maybe we need
instant success. If so, we may decide to turn to transplants.

   Or transplants and drugs together.

   Today, the maximum assault we can wage against baldness is to get transplants
for what we've lost, and use Rogaine or the coming new medicines to fill in
among the transplants and help us keep the hair we have.

   Tomorrow, if a cure comes, it'll be different.

   It's up to us, of course, whether to find solace or irony in the fact that,
20,000 centuries after baldness-prone man descended from hairy ape, we were born
into what may be the last human generation that has to worry about slowly
turning into Homo Chromus Domus.

   Better hair through electricity?

   It's not quite electroshock therapy for the hairline, but backers claim a new
device restores hair growth by using mild electrical pulses. The machine will
hit the market in Canada, New Zealand, Australia, South Korea and Mexico by
summer.

   They call it electrotrichogenesis.

   The patient lies on a chaise lounge and puts his or her head into a device
that looks like a big salon hair dryer. The top of the head is then bathed by a
mild, pulsed electrostatic field. The patient feels nothing, and nothing touches
the scalp.

   In a 1990 study by dermatologists at the University of British Columbia
Medical School, patients achieved a 66 percent increase in hair count per square
inch after 36 weeks of the treatment, and even more up to week 70. Researchers
speculated that the pulses stimulated cell division around the hair follicles.

   The down side: Twelve-minute treatments, at $50 each, are needed weekly for
the first two years, and monthly after that. And company officials don't claim
the moon even then.

   "Some men and women we refer to as poster boys and girls get significant
cosmetic results; others simply maintain what they've got," said Jeff Murdock,
spokesman for Current Technology Corp. of Vancouver.

   Murdoch's company is seeking FDA approval to market the machine in the United
States.

   "But I don't see it happening this year."

   -- Fred Tasker, Miami Herald

   ***

NOTES: BODY & MIND; COVER STORY
SIDEBAR ATTACHED

GRAPHIC: Drawing Color AARON HIGHTOWER, Detroit Free Press

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2890 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      March 25, 1996, Monday, ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 08B

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Emory team solves part of prostate cancer puzzle

BYLINE: Anne Rochell; STAFF WRITER

DATELINE: San Francisco

BODY:


   Imagine that you have a life-saving message to deliver, but no way to send
it.

   Dr. John Petros and a team of Emory University researchers are working on
this dilemma, and they have developed a way to insert genetic information into
prostate cancer cells, information that would halt the uncontrolled growth that
makes a tumor deadly.

   In gene therapy, finding a way to deliver a corrective gene directly to the
cancer site has confounded researchers. But in prostate cancer, the Emory team
has found a way to "glue" DNA - the molecule that stores genetic information in
cells - to a male hormone that the tumor cells need to grow and multiply. Then
the cancer will draw the hormone, called androgen, to itself, thereby drawing in
the genetic therapy.

   The idea behind gene therapy in general is to correct a genetic code that has
somehow gone wrong, causing bad cells to multiply uncontrollably.

   It is not yet known just what goes wrong genetically in prostate cancer, but
once that is discovered, there is now potentially a way to get corrections to
the cancer site, Petros said. This method has worked only in the laboratory; it
has not yet been tried in animals or humans.

   Petros presented his findings Sunday at the American Cancer Society's annual
conference for science writers. Other research presented showed just how far
science has come in accurately predicting which prostate cancers can be cured
and which treatments work best, depending on the severity of the cancer. This
year, prostate cancer will strike 317,000 men in the United States, and kill
more than 40,000, according to the American Cancer Society. It is the second
leading cause of cancer death in men.

   In another presentation, Glen deVries of Columbia University said he has
developed a highly sensitive test to tell if prostate cancer has spread beyond
the prostate, making it potentially deadly. Called a reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction test, or RT-PCA, it can detect even one
cell that has escaped from the prostate into the bloodstream.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996


                             2891 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                      March 25, 1996, Monday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: DISCOVERY MIGHT HELP TO TREAT PROSTATE CANCER;
COULD OPEN WAY TO GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: MALCOLM RITTER; Associated Press

BODY:


   SAN FRANCISCO -- Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells,
a possible step toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate, settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and, so far, no effective treatment has been
found for them, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine
in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   But the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called androgen
receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus --
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, said Petros, who described the results Sunday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be easily detected to show that the delivery system works, he said.

   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

   Warren Heston, director of the George M. O'Brien Urology Research Center at
the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said that while many of
these types of cancer cells have androgen receptors, some do not.

   Petros said studies show more than 90 percent have the androgen receptor.

   Heston said animal experiments will be required to determine if the
hormone-gene combinations can reach cancerous cells in the body.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996


                             2892 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

                  March 25, 1996, MONDAY, Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: 'Trick' on Prostate Cancer Cells Raises Hopes for Gene Therapy

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:

   Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a possible step
toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could lead to a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and there's no effective treatment for them
yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone, and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus --

 right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, Petros said, describing the results Sunday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene but rather one whose
activity can be easily detected to show that the delivery system works, he said.

   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

   In another presentation, Dr. Haakon Ragde of the Pacific Northwest Cancer
Foundation and Northwest Hospital in Seattle reported that planting tiny
radioactive pellets in the prostate with a needle can be a good alternative to
prostate removal for cancers that have not escaped from the organ.

   The five-year disease-free survival rate compares favorably to that of
similar patients treated by prostate removal, he said.

   Also at the seminar, Glen de Vries of Columbia University in New York said a
blood test can show with high accuracy whether cancerous cells have escaped from
the prostate. The tests may someday help doctors decide how to treat patients.

GRAPHIC: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996


                             2893 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 The Columbus Dispatch
                            Columbus Dispatch (Ohio)



                             March 25, 1996, Monday

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL & NATIONAL, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS DEBATE ISSUES IN PROSTATE TREATMENT

BYLINE: Mark D. Somerson, Dispatch Staff Reporter

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:


   With 317,000 new cases of prostate cancer expected to be diagnosed this year
- resulting in about 41,000 deaths - researchers are scrambling to hone
screening tools and improve treatments.

   At an American Cancer Society conference yesterday, leading researchers
discussed new fronts in prostate testing and treatment.

   About a million men will have a biopsy this year to determine whether they
have prostate cancer. How the patient should be treated - if at all - is a
matter of debate.

   Scientists 15 years ago identified a protein in semen that is specific to the
prostate.

   Using a patient's prostate-specific antigen level - or PSA - to determine
whether a patient has prostate cancer has become routine. Findings can vary
greatly, however, because the Food and Drug Administration has approved five
different tests.

   PSA ''is a remarkable marker,'' said Dr. Thomas A. Stamey, a professor of
urology at Stanford University. ''No other cancer has one like it.''

   For that reason, the tests must be uniform, Stamey said.

   Stanford has created a standard for the test. So far, only one company that
makes a test has conformed to that standard.

   Once doctors have that PSA level, however, should the patient receive
treatment?

   Researchers at Columbia University have created a technique that seems to
show whether the cancer has spread to a patient's bones. If so, surgery,
radiation and other therapies are useless.

   Doctor and patient must decide on the form of treatment.

   In most cases of localized prostate cancer, surgeons rely on radical
prostatectomy, in which the entire prostate is removed, or external radiation,
which is transmitted through a narrow beam of energy from outside the body.

   Both show risks of side effects, including incontinence and impotence.

   Dr. Haakon Ragde, director of the Pacific Northwest Cancer Foundation in
Seattle, said there is a third treatment choice: brachytherapy.

   Brachytherapy, or interstitial radiation, involves using ultrasound
technology to guide small radioactive ''seeds'' into the prostate through the
perineum, the space between the scrotum and rectum.

   Although this form of surgery has been performed since the turn of the
century, Ragde said the use of ultrasound has made it an outpatient procedure
with few risks.

   ''We have trained probably 700 physicians in this procedure,'' he said. ''But
it is still underutilized.''

   Dr. John A. Petros, director of urologic research at Emory University School
of Medicine in Atlanta, said some of the greatest strides have been made on
prostrate cancer.

   The future of prostate treatment might come out of Emory University where
Petros and his colleague are testing a form of gene therapy that could one day
make the cancer cells shut themselves down.

   ''There is no magic bullet yet,'' Petros said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996


                             2894 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                        Copyright 1996 The Denver Post
                             All Rights Reserved
                                The Denver Post

                        March 25, 1996 Monday 2D EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-03

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Gene therapy may arrest prostate cancer

BYLINE: Malcolm Ritter, The Associated Press

BODY:

   SAN FRANCISCO - Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a
possible step toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on hormones.

   Those cells are the ones that kill, and there's no effective treatment for
them yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in
Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens, performed because prostate cancer initially
feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone, and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, Petros said before describing the results yesterday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   The approach Petros described is interesting, said Warren Heston, director of
the George M. O'Brien Urology Research Center at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York.

   But Heston said that while many of these types of cancer cells have androgen
receptors, some do not.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996


                             2895 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        MARCH 25, 1996 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: WAY IS FOUND TO TRICK PROSTATE CANCER CELLS

BYLINE: Malcolm Ritter, ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:

   Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a possible step
toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones. Those are
the ones that kill, and there's no effective treatment for them yet, said Dr.
John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said. However, the cancer cells still produce a
bumper crop of proteins called androgen receptors, which latch on to hormone
molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone, and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, Petros said in an interview before describing the results
yesterday at a seminar sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on, and make the cells produce a
particular protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be easily detected to show that the delivery system works, he said.

   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2896 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                             March 25, 1996, Monday

SECTION: Pg. 2, Part A

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: SAN FRANCISCO - Scientists have discovered a way to trick

SOURCE: Associated Press


BODY: SAN FRANCISCO - Scientists have discovered a way to trick prostate cancer
cells, a possible step toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and there's no effective treatment for them
yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.



   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that
doesn't need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone, and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, Petros said in an interview before describing the results Sunday
at a seminar sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown a gene can be delivered to prostate cancer
cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far haven't used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be easily detected to show that the delivery system works, he said.



   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

   medicine research genes

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998


                             2897 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 25, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: NEW METHOD FOUND IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CANCER OF PROSTATE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:


   Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a possible step
toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and there is no effective treatment for them
yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That is where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene or gene
fragment that can shut off the cancer process in those cells or kill them,
tether that gene to a molecule of an androgen hormone and send the combination
into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells,
Petros said in an interview before describing the results Sunday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be detected easily to show that the delivery system works, he said.

   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

   The approach Petros described is interesting, said Warren Heston, director of
the George M. O'Brien Urology Research Center at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York. But Heston said that while many of these types of
cancer cells have androgen receptors, some do not.

   Petros said studies show more than 90 percent have the androgen receptor.

   Heston also said it would take experiments in animals to see if the
hormone-gene combinations can reach cancerous cells in the body.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1996


                             2898 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 25, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: NEW METHOD FOUND IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CANCER OF PROSTATE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:


   Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a possible step
toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and there is no effective treatment for them
yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That is where his approach comes in.

   The idea is to take a gene or gene fragment that can shut off the cancer
process in those cells or kill them, tether that gene to a molecule of an
androgen hormone and send the combination into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells,
Petros said in an interview before describing the results Sunday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be detected easily to show that the delivery system works, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1996


                             2899 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                          March 25, 1996 Monday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY MIGHT STYMIE PROSTATE CANCER

BYLINE: By MALCOLM RITTER AP science writer

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

BODY:

   Scientists have found a way to trick prostate cancer cells, a possible step
toward using gene therapy to shut them down.

   It could pay off with a way to treat cancer cells that have escaped from the
prostate and settled elsewhere and no longer depend on male hormones.

   Those are the ones that kill, and there's no effective treatment for them
yet, said Dr. John Petros of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

   His approach takes advantage of the way prostate cancer cells respond to a
standard treatment: surgical or chemical castration to shut off production of
male hormones called androgens. Doctors do that because prostate cancer
initially feeds on androgens.

   That treatment is effective only until the cancer returns in a form that does
not need androgens, Petros said.

   However, the cancer cells still produce a bumper crop of proteins called
androgen receptors, which latch onto hormone molecules, Petros said.

   That's where his approach comes in. The idea is to take a gene that can shut
off the cancer process in those cells or kill them, tether that gene to a
molecule of an androgen hormone, and send the combination into the patient.

   When one of the hormone parts of the combination contacts an androgen
receptor, the cancer cell reacts by dragging the whole thing into its nucleus -
right where the therapeutic gene should go, Petros said.

   The idea has worked in preliminary experiments with prostate cancer cells in
the laboratory, Petros said before describing the results Sunday at a seminar
sponsored by the American Cancer Society.

   So far, the experiments have shown that a gene can be delivered to prostate
cancer cells, enter the cells, switch on and make the cells produce a particular
protein, he said.

   Experiments so far have not used a therapeutic gene, but rather one whose
activity can be easily detected to show that the delivery system works, he said.

   Other scientists are trying to find the right gene to use in the process, one
that might replace a malfunctioning gene or shut down one that promotes cancer,
he said.

   The approach Petros described is interesting, said Warren Heston, director of
the George M. O'Brien Urology Research Center at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York.

   Heston said it will take experiments in animals to see if the hormone-gene
combinations can reach cancerous cells in the body.

   In another presentation, Dr. Haakon Ragde of the Pacific Northwest Cancer
Foundation and Northwest Hospital in Seattle said planting tiny radioactive
pellets in the prostate with a needle appears to be a good alternative to
prostate removal for cancers that have not escaped from the organ.

   The five-year disease-free survival rate compares favorably with that of
similar patients treated by prostate removal, he said.

   Also at the seminar, Glen de Vries of Columbia University in New York said a
blood test can show accurately whether cancerous cells have escaped from the
prostate. That information can help doctors decide on treatment.

   The test identifies prostate cells in the bloodstream because they carry a
unique molecule called prostate-specific antigen.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996


                             2900 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                    March 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D04; THE TV COLUMN

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: The TV Column

BYLINE: John Carmody, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Channel 9 yesterday announced two more hires -- including the long-sought
sports anchor to replace Warner Wolf -- and the early retirement of local
programming boss Sandra Butler-Jones . . .

   Ken Broo (pronounced brew), who's been the voice of the NFL Bengals for WKRC
in Cincinnati, is expected to make his first appearance on Nine on a WUSA
preview of the NCAA basketball championship game the night of Monday, April 1 .
. .

   He will begin his regular stint as sports anchor on April 15, according to
news director Rob Mennie . . .

   "Ken is a good reporter, and he's a great storyteller," said WUSA general
manager Bob Sullivan . . .

   Broo has been sports director and weekday sports anchor at WKRC since 1990,
and besides his duties with the Bengals has worked on various ESPN events and is
the contract announcer for Bud Sports of St. Louis. He was radio analyst for the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers during four years at WTSP in the Tampa/St. Petersburg
market . . .

   He joins Frank Herzog, who recently signed another long-term contract with
the station, and Ken Meese on what Nine likes to call its "team." The top sports
job has been vacant since August, when the new Gannett management team at Nine
sacked Wolf -- who three years before had inherited the impossible task of
replacing Glenn Brenner. Brenner's tragic early death in 1992 sent the station
into a decline that finally cost it the news leadership in this market . . .

   Mennie also announced that former Baltimore anchor Beverly Burke has been
hired to co-anchor the weekday 4 p.m. newscast with Mike Buchanan, debuting on
April 22 . . .

   Burke also will step in as co-anchor, with Mack Lee, of the noon news when
she arrives. That broadcast, anchored for years by Bob Dalton and Andrea Roane,
has undergone a complete change, as Dalton retired and Roane joined Gordon
Peterson on the 6 and 11 p.m. news . . .

   Mennie told staffers yesterday Burke might either continue in that assignment
or become an entertainment reporter in addition to the 4 p.m. assignment . . .

   Burke for the past two years has been at KCBS in Los Angeles after several
years with both WMAR and WJZ in Baltimore. "She loves this area, and she feels
as if she's coming home," Mennie said yesterday . . .

   Sandra Butler-Jones, vice president, broadcast operations, at Nine, steps
down at the end of this week after 16 years with the station and some 24 years
in Washington television . . .

   At Nine in recent years she has been in charge of local programming, but last
summer the new management transferred many of the resources of her department to
the news unit . . .

   "I've had 16 marvelous years here," she said yesterday. "I'd been thinking
about retirement, but then my mom died late last year or I would have done it
earlier. It's just time to move on . . .

   "After the changes here I was still very much part of the management team,
and I think I helped the transition since I kind of brought the history of the
station in the market with me" . . .

   Tomorrow, she heads to California and a trip to Disneyland with the
2-year-old daughter of her son Eric Butler. "I'm going to go play Grandma," said
Butler-Jones. "And I can hardly wait" . . .

   Butler-Jones had become a staff producer at WRC before joining Nine in 1980.
Her husband, Ed, is general manager of the University of the District of
Columbia's FM station, WDCU . . .

   Sullivan said yesterday, "We're going to miss Sandra very much." He said a
search has begun for her replacement, and in the interim Chuck Cowdrey, vice
president, broadcast, will be in charge of the unit . . .

   In Other News

   Fox Broadcasting, whose quest for ratings parity with the big guys has sort
of flattened out, announced a 1996-97 development slate of 33 prime-time series
yesterday, including 18 comedies, 12 dramas and three reality series, plus 13
movies . . .

   The presentation to advertisers in L.A. also included confirmation that its
planned late-night soap opera, "13 Bourbon Street," will premiere on Monday,
Jan. 13, 1997, at 11 . . .

   Dramas under consideration for the fall schedule (which will be announced in
May) include a sci-fi hour based on the British series "Doctor Who"; "Enemy,"
starring Billy Wirth, about a government test victim on the run after a secret
gene therapy experiment goes awry; and "L.A. Fire," about a group of
firefighters and paramedics you-know-where. That hour could be launched this
summer. CBS last week announced that it's thinking of "Firehouse," which is set
in New York, for next season (more tomorrow as space allows) . . .

   Where do these chaps get the time? Tom Brokaw said yesterday that he will
write a book "about America as it gets ready for the 21st century," which
probably will be in the nation's bookstores by 1998 . . .

   "It's not autobiographical," he said, "but I expect there'll be some personal
stuff in it" . . .

   And over at ABC News, Ted Koppel and a former "Nightline" producer, Kyle
Gibson, have written "Nightline: History in the Making and the Making of
Television," a behind-the-scenes history of the program for Times Books, which
is to be published June 2 . . .

   ABC won a Tuesday for the first time in three weeks, but by the slimmest of
margins over challenging NBC . . .

   A big drop in ratings for the second edition of Dana Carvey's comedy sketch
show was a major factor. Hammocked between the strong "Home Improvement," which
even in rerun did a 14.2 national rating and a 22 percent audience share, and
the returning "NYPD Blue" (12.8/22), "The Mug Root Beer Dana Carvey Show"
delivered only a 9.9/16 at 9:30, which cut into the cop drama's season average
of 14.6/24 . . .

   The first Carvey show had attained a Top 20 14.2/23 last week . . .

   ABC did an 11.8/19 for the night, while NBC averaged an 11.7/19, led by
"Dateline's" 12.5/21 . . .

   CBS, at 9.1/15, got a 10.1/17 out of the movie "Race Against Time: The Search
for Sarah" . . .

   "Another Stakeout" on Fox averaged a 7.1/11 . . .

   Locally, Dana did an 11.7/18, but "NYPD Blue" jumped to a 15.2/24 on WJLA;
"Frasier" led the WRC lineup with a 17.0/24; and "Sarah" on WUSA averaged an
8.9/14 . . .

   "Stakeout" did a 9.7/15 on WTTG; "Moesha," a 6.5/10 on WDCA; and the movie
"South Pacific," a 1.3/2 on WBDC . . .

   The premiere of Dana Carvey's show on March 12 was in such bad taste that not
one but two sponsors, last week's "Taco Bell" and a future "Pizza Hut," pulled
their ads from the series and ruled out any future use of their names in the
show title . . .

   That sparked conjecture that the Carvey show would have to drop its planned
use of product names in its weekly titles after Tuesday's show, but an ABC
source said yesterday it looks like the practice will continue (in part, because
the second edition turned out to be quite funny without the raunch) -- despite
the sharp drop in numbers . . .

   Law & Order

   A judge in Santa Monica, Calif., has sentenced actress Tori Spelling's former
assistant and the assistant's attorney to three years' probation in an attempted
blackmail case . . .

   The Superior Court judge also ordered Karen Tublitz and her attorney, Frances
Jones, to perform 200 hours of community service . . .

   Both women were charged in March with conspiracy and extortion, stemming from
an alleged scheme in which Spelling (a regular on "Beverly Hills, 90210") was
supposed to pay Tublitz $ 30,000 to keep various private details from becoming
public . . .

   Jones, whom Tublitz consulted for legal advice, was also charged with
practicing law without a license . . .

   Don't Go Away. Actor-director Forest Whitaker was arrested in Beverly Hills
early Wednesday on drunk driving charges, according to police . . .

   Whitaker -- who played the kidnapped soldier in "The Crying Game," directed
this year's "Waiting to Exhale" and is a veteran of series such as "Hill Street
Blues, "Cagney & Lacey" and even "Diff'rent Strokes" -- was arrested shortly
after 4 a.m. after his Mercedes-Benz was spotted speeding and weaving on Sunset
Boulevard, police said . . .

   A police spokeswoman said he was booked on suspicion of drunk driving after
failing a field sobriety test. Later released, he was ordered to appear in court
April 10 . . .


GRAPHIC: Photo, Beverly Burke joins Channel 9 as 4 p.m. anchor.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996


                             2901 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 P.G. Publishing Co.
                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   March 20, 1996, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: LIVER CELLS GROWN IN DISH;
DISCOVERY AT PITT CALLED MAJOR STEP TO ARTIFICIAL LIVER

BYLINE: BYRON SPICE, SCIENCE EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

BODY:


   Scientists at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center say they have
figured out how to grow normal liver cells in a laboratory dish, a feat
researchers have pursued for three decades and feared might be impossible.

   The discovery, reported in the March issue of the Journal of Cell Biology,
could help alleviate a critical shortage of transplantable livers by making
artificial livers possible. Liver cells grown in culture also might be directly
infused into liver patients, or used as a tool for gene therapy to correct
hemophilia, Gaucher's disease and a multitude of other inherited diseases.

   Cultured liver cells could be a safe source of clotting factors, albumin and
other therapeutic proteins now derived from donor blood plasma.

   And the same culture medium - a secret brew of vitamins, minerals, proteins
and hormones - can be used to grow pancreatic islet cells, insulin-producing
cells that could be used to treat diabetes.

   The discovery faces ''tremendous skepticism,'' admitted Dr. Geoffrey Block,
who led the research at Pitt.

   Inside the liver, normal liver cells survive for months. But in a
conventional cell culture, the cells die off in a matter of days. And attempts
to get mature liver cells to divide and proliferate usually cause the cells to
die faster than they can reproduce, Block said.

   In Block's cell culture medium, however, human liver cells have prospered,
living and dividing for more than three months. Rat liver cells have been kept
alive more than a year.

   ''The only way people in-house were convinced was to take them aside and give
them an unmarked vial of this stuff,'' Block said. Once they saw liver cells
growing in the medium in their own labs, they became believers.

   ''It will take some time for people to believe it because there've been so
many failures,'' said Dr. Jayanta Row-Chowdhury, a liver researcher at Albert
Einstein College of Medicine in Bronx, N.Y. Dozens of culture media have been
touted for growing liver cells, only to fail.

   ''I didn't believe it, either,'' Row-Chowdhury said. But then Block gave him
a sample of the medium. ''I can see the cells growing.''

   The culture medium is made of ''off-the-shelf nutrients,'' Block said. The
formula, however, is being kept secret, and Pitt has applied for a patent.

   The research project is part of the Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative,
which is promoting regional economic development by spinning off biomedical
research into commercial enterprises.

   ''This really is something we're trying to turn into a manufacturing base in
Western Pennsylvania,'' said Block, who collaborated with interim medical school
Dean George Michalopoulos and seven other researchers on the project.

   The liver is one of the largest, most complex and least understood organs in
the body. It is a chemical factory, making more than 200 substances necessary
for life. Though its cells have been difficult to culture in a petri dish, the
liver is the only organ capable of regenerating itself.

   The capability to keep cells alive for months in a laboratory will be a boon
for basic science, Row-Chowdhury said. For the first time, investigators will be
able to study how genes turn themselves on and off to produce various proteins.

   One clinical application may be in artificial livers.

   Dr. Robert Gish, head of the liver service at California Pacific Hospital in
San Francisco, noted the experimental devices can help keep patients with
diseased livers alive while they await transplants. One design includes a
cartridge filled with pig or human liver cells, but these cells die within
hours, so each cartridge must be replaced every six to eight hours.

   A cartridge using the Pitt culture medium, however, might last a week or
more.

   In fact, Block said, experiments at Pitt showed the function of artificial
liver cartridges employing the medium actually improve over time as the liver
cells proliferate. Gish estimated it might be two to five years before such a
device would be widely available for patients.

   The Pitt researchers' success in getting the cultured liver cells to divide
also offers new opportunities for gene therapy, Row-Chowdhury said. To insert a
healthy or therapeutic gene into a cell usually requires that the cell divide,
he said.

   An early gene therapy experiment that attempted to treat
hypercholesterolemia, an inherited disorder that causes high cholesterol levels,
involved removing liver cells, adding a corrective gene to them and then
transfusing them back to the patient.

   But Row-Chowdhury said this failed because researchers were unable to remove
enough cells from the patient. With the new medium, the number of cells could be
increased in culture.

   Row-Chowdhury and Block are collaborating on possible gene therapy for
inherited jaundice, a fatal disease that now must be treated with a liver
transplant.

   The most immediate application of the new technology, Block said, probably
would be in producing liver cell cultures necessary for testing the toxicity and
other effects of new drugs and chemicals.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996


                             2902 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            March 20, 1996 Wednesday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-5

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: QUEST;
ABSTRACTS

BYLINE: Scott LaFee | Leigh Fenly

BODY:

   Brief reports by Quest writers of new books on science, medicine and the
environment. [] IN SEARCH OF THE OLD ONES David Roberts (Simon & Schuster; 271
pages; $24) The extraordinary cliff dwellings of the Anasazi Indians dot the
American Southwest, providing archaeologists with a wealth of information about
a complex, sophisticated culture that thrived more than 700 years ago. But one
mystery persists: Why did the Anasazi suddenly abandon the Colorado Plateau
around A.D. 1300, leaving behind, in some cases, rooms so pristine and intact
that they look as if the inhabitants expected to be back within hours? You won't
find the answer here, but Roberts, a popular writer, does provide a lively
account of Anasazi research and the various theories for their disappearance.
The book is further embellished by a fine selection of black-and-white photos
depicting some Anasazi sites, famous and obscure. -- Scott LaFee [] DINOSAUR
EXTINCTION AND THE END OF AN ERA J. David Archibald (Columbia University Press;
237 pages; $23) A clue to the mass extinction on Earth 65 million years ago is
what species survived.

   Salamanders, frogs, turtles and crocodiles managed to flourish through
whatever it was that did in the dinosaurs.

   That makes scientists like Archibald, an SDSU paleontologist, question
current theories about dinosaur extinction, particularly the widely held notion
of an asteroid or comet collision. Archibald relies on the fossil record to
argue why the asteroid theory -- and also the extreme volcanism theory -- don't
hold water.

   Both a comet collision and massive volcanic eruptions would have reduced
temperatures on Earth and caused highly acidic rain to fall.

   In such conditions, frogs, turtles and salamanders would have been the first
to suffer.

   Instead they flourished. Archibald favors a combination plate of extinction
causes: loss of shallow seas that created habitat fragmentation and allowed the
introduction of new invaders across land bridges, then a comet impact.

   This double whammy, he suggests, might have been sufficient to leave Earth
dinosaur-free for the first time in 150 million years. -- Leigh Fenly [] RAIN OF
IRON AND ICE John S. Lewis (Addison-Wesley; 246 pages; $25) There's a comet out
there, or maybe an asteroid, with our name on it, and one day it's going to slam
into Earth with catastrophic results. Lewis, co-director of NASA's space
engineering research center in Arizona, describes in lucid and reasoned prose
the real and likely threat of bombardment by comets and asteroids. Summoning
evidence from paleontological digs, space-probe missions and basic astrophysics,
Lewis argues that the Earth, moon and other planets have been regularly struck
in the past and likely will be again.

   He says our only hope is to develop some sort of preventive measures to ward
off incoming missiles. On the positive side, however, Lewis notes that
near-Earth asteroids pose a a handy resource for new deposits of minerals and
rare metals.

   All we've got to do is get them before one gets us. -- Scott LaFee [] THE
CLOCK OF AGES John Medina (Cambridge University Press; 332 pages) In this
well-researched and sometimes surprisingly sensitive book, Medina, a molecular
biologist at the University of Washington School of Medicine, explains what is
known about how humans age, why and what can be done about it. The bulk of
Medina's work covers the easiest part of aging: process.

   He explores research describing age-related changes at both the molecular
level and in the body whole.

   It can be a depressing journey at times, but also one that is enlightening
and, because the process is inevitable, enabling: I age, therefore I cope. The
concluding chapters end on a wistful (wishful?) note about what science might do
to slow or even reverse the aging process.

   Medina briefly discusses, for example, hormone boosters and gene therapy as
two promising avenues of geriatric research. But don't hold your breath, he
says.

   Substantial breakthroughs, if any are to be made, will probably benefit our
children -- or perhaps their children. -- Scott LaFee [] THE DEMON-HAUNTED WORLD
Carl Sagan (Random House; 416 pages; $25) `I worry," writes Sagan, the esteemed
astronomer and popular scientist, "that as the millennium edges nearer,
pseudoscience and superstition will seem year by year more tempting, the siren
song of unreason more sonorous and attractive." He is not alone.

   As society becomes increasingly reliant on technology, Americans seem to be
going the other way, becoming increasingly scientifically illiterate and more
willing to believe in E.T. and New Age mumbo-jumbo. Sagan predicts this
"combustible mix of ignorance and power is going to blow up in our faces."

   We are edging toward a new Dark Age. In a persuasive series of arguments,
presented in occasionally personal terms, the Cornell University professor urges
readers to be more skeptical, to preserve democracy and enlightenment by bluntly
questioning such stories of alien abductions, faith healing and channeling.
Science, he says, does not destroy spirituality.

   It offers the truth. -- Scott LaFee [] A SHORT HISTORY OF PLANET EARTH J.D.
Macdougall (Wiley & Sons; 256 pages; $24.95) Macdougall is a professor of earth
science at UCSD's Scripps Institution of Oceanography.

   He's also a fine and informative tour guide, and his book -- "Short History"
-- is an abbreviated, but informative, primer on the geologic and biologic past
of the Earth. In straightforward style, using brief chapters and an occasional
illustration, Macdougall recounts the planet's past.

   He explains prevailing theories about how the Earth was formed, the origins
of life, why dinosaurs went extinct, the nature of earthquakes and global
warming. -- Scott LaFee

GRAPHIC: 3 PICS

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2903 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                            March 20, 1996 Wednesday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: HEART'S CONTENT;
Can heart disease be blamed on turbulence?

BYLINE: SCOTT LaFEE, Staff Writer

BODY:

   Imagine your circulatory system as a very complicated set of pipes. Where
arteries run straight and true, blood flows fast and smooth and problems are
few.

   At pipe joints, however, it's another story, a veritable plumber's nightmare.
Here, where arteries join together, clogging routinely occurs.

   Like old food caught at the place where the sink pipe hooks to the main line,
fatty plaque builds up inside arterial walls.

   Over time, the clogging narrows the artery, reducing blood flow and causing
portions of the body downstream to become starved for oxygen and other necessary
nutrients. The phenomenon is called atherosclerosis; it is the most common
arterial disease in the world, present to some degree in virtually every adult
male in Western society.

   Atherosclerosis is the usual cause of coronary heart disease, which kills
nearly 1 million Americans annually, one every 33 seconds according to the
American Heart Association. Researchers have long known about some of the
factors involved in atherosclerosis -- the roles of diet and genetics, for
example.

   But in a series of recent papers, Shu Chien, a professor of bioengineering
and director of the Institute for Biomedical Engineering at UCSD, reported that
there appears to be a connection between the formation of atherosclerotic plaque
and the movement of blood itself. At arterial branch sites, Chien says, the flow
of blood ceases to be smooth, becoming more turbulent -- a bit like water behind
a midstream rock.

   Fatty molecules or lipids carried along by the bloodstream accumulate here.
But the explanation for their buildup is not so simple as, say, explaining why
debris gets caught in a river's eddy.

   The cause, said Chien, is far more subtle -- and much more interesting. Feel
the churn To find the cause, Chien and colleagues (John Y.-J. Shyy, Yi-Shan Li,
Ming-Chao Lin, Wayne Chen, Suli Yuan and Schunichi Usami) created a flow chamber
-- a box that mimics the mechanical functions of arteries in the body. The
chamber was lined with endothelial cells (similar to the kind that comprise
arterial walls) and filled with a blood-plasmalike medium. With the medium still
and unmoving, the researchers noted that nothing much happened.

   But when a flow was initiated, Chien said many things began to happen almost
simultaneously. First, he said, turbulence at the branch sites appears to speed
the turnover of endothelial cells in the area.

   Though no one can yet explain why, Chien theorizes that certain genes in
these cells are sensitized to the physical forces of blood flow.

   These genes are involved in cell division.

   When stimulated by churning blood, they order cell division earlier than it
occurs elsewhere along the arteries. "And whenever a cell changes, the
relationship it has with its neighbors becomes abnormal," said Chien.

   "The junctions connecting them loosen up." As a result, at arterial branch
sites, gaps form between cells big enough to permit drifting molecules like
low-density lipoproteins (LDL -- a harmful form of cholesterol) to enter the
arterial wall. At the same time, according to Chien, surface receptors on
endothelial cells react to chaotic blood flow by converting that mechanical
information into chemical messages that switch on an internal gene called MCP-1
(for monocyte chemotactic protein-1). MCP-1 activates a protein that summons
white blood cells called monocytes to the area.

   Arriving monocytes enter the arterial wall as well, converting into
LDL-eating cells called macrophages. Alas, said Chien, their good intentions
cause problems.

   As the macrophages consume oxidized LDL, they transform again into a sort of
foamy cell.

   If there aren't too many foamy cells, they are dispersed back into the
bloodstream for disposal or metabolized by the endothelial cells. But a lot of
LDL attracts lots of macrophages, more than the system can routinely and safely
handle.

   The resulting glut of foamy cells becomes plaque, hardening and swelling the
arterial wall and ultimately reducing blood flow. "This is a case of too much of
a good thing becoming bad," said Chien. Most atherosclerotic blockages occur in
the arteries adjacent to the heart, not in the heart itself.

   The reason, said Chien, is simple enough.

   Inside the heart, blood flow is turbulent but also at very high levels.
"Everything gets cleared out," Chien said.

   "That's why exercise would seem to be so good for you.

   It increases blood flow and helps wash out the system." Blood unsimple
Studying blood flow is no simple task.

   Nearly half of blood volume is typically composed of various kinds of
semi-solid cells, primarily red.

   "It is not a simple homogenous liquid-like water," Chien said. As a result,
blood behaves differently at different times.

   When flows are fast and high -- as in a clear arterial straightaway, for
example -- the round, disklike red blood cells stretch out to become more
aerodynamic. At lower flows, however, blood cells clump together, lining up in
formations called rouleaus, a French term meaning "stacks of coins." "The slower
the flow, the greater the viscosity and aggregates," said Chien.

   "That's why obstructions which slow blood movement tend to make things
worse." Atherosclerosis is a primary cause of arterial obstruction and,
indirectly, the target of Chien's research.

   Currently, patients suffering from arterial blockages are often treated with
bypass operations or procedures like balloon angioplasty in which a small,
inflated balloon is pulled through a clogged artery to clear it of blockages.
The problem, however, is that in about one-third of all angioplasty cases, the
arteries quickly become obstructed again. Chien and colleagues hope to block or
delay the onset of atherosclerosis by developing a gene therapy that would
interrupt the signaling pathway endothelial cells use to convert blood flow data
to chemical messages used to summon monocytes. It's a daunting task.

   The signaling pathway, said Chien, appears to be incredibly complex,
crisscrossing and interacting with other message routes inside each cell.
Moreover, researchers still do not completely understand how cells even
interpret the mechanical actions of blood flow.

   Chien theorizes that it may have something to do with how blood washes over
receptors on a cell's surface. If the flow is consistent and in one direction,
the receptors -- like reeds in the wind -- orient themselves one way and confirm
one sort of chemical message.

   If the blood flow is chaotic, shifting receptors first one way, then another,
the receptors react with a different sort of message. Or, Chien supposed, it may
be that varying blood pressures alter the cells' cytoskeletons, triggering
internal changes. "We really don't know what's happening yet," Chien said.

   "This is all very new.

   Ten years ago, nobody was even looking at this." Further resources: "Blood,
The River of Life," by Jake Page (U.S. News Books, 1981) "The Heart and
Cardiovascular System," edited by Harry A. Fozzard (Raven Press, 1986) "The
Human Cardiovascular System," by John T. Shepherd and Paul M. Vanhoutte (Raven
Press, 1979) Online: http://www-bioeng.ucsd/academic.info.html.

   The home page for UCSD's bioengineering department.

GRAPHIC: 1 DIAGRAM; 1 PIC; 1 CHART; CAPTIONS: 1. Tumult and trouble | Where
arteries branch, blood flow becomes more turbulent, proviking a series of events
that can lead to atherosclerotic lesions at the branch sites. Increasing
turbulence opens gaps in the arterial walls, allowing low-denisty lipoproteins
to accumulate inside. Endothelial cells summon help from monocytes, which enter
the wall, convert into macrophages and consume LDLs. The macrophages become a
problem when they evolve into foam cells -- amajor component of atherosclerotic
plaque. 2. Burbling blood: Where arteries split, says bioengineer Shu Chien,
blood becomes more turbulent, provoking a series of events that can lead to
arteriosclerotic plaque. (E-4) 3. Further resources (E-4); PHOTOBY: 1. SOURCE:
Shu Chien, UCSD | Union-Tribune / MARK NOWLIN 2. Union-Tribune / JERRY RIFE

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2904 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                      March 8, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: 2 Swiss drug giants are merging; Thousands to lose jobs as Ciba-Geigy,
Sandoz form No. 2 drug maker

SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

BODY:


   BASEL, Switzerland -- Swiss drug makers Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Sandoz Ltd. will
combine into the world's second biggest drug company in a $ 29.6 billion deal
that dooms thousands of jobs.

   The companies said they expect to cut their 134,000-employee work force by
about 10 percent, with a third of the cuts in Switzerland.

   Although the companies didn't describe the impact on U.S. workers, both
companies have major factories in New Jersey, which could be put on the chopping
block. The companies said they hope to save $ 1.5 billion over the next three
years.

   In August, Sandoz acquired one of Maryland's more promising biotechnology
companies, Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg.

   The mega-merger -- described by both companies as a marriage of equals -- is
by far the biggest ever in the drug industry and one of the biggest corporate
transactions in history.

   The value exceeds the $ 25 billion takeover of RJR Nabisco in 1989, the
biggest corporate deal in U.S. history. It falls shy of the pending $ 33.8
billion merger between Bank of Tokyo Ltd. and Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.

   Products from the merged companies range from Ex-Lax and Doan's pills to
Ritalin medicine for hyperactive children. Their 4.4 percent share of the global
market will rank just behind industry leader Glaxo-Wellcome PLC of Britain --
itself the product of a merger last year.

   Stock in both Ciba and Sandoz rose higher on the announcement, the latest in
a spree of mergers that illustrate that corporate deal-making is a global
syndrome that can ripple far and wide.

   Sandoz shareholders will technically own a majority of the new company, to be
named Novartis, which will be combined through an exchange of stock. Viewed that
way, the value of the deal is about $ 29.6 billion, based on the stock values of
Sandoz and Ciba shares when the deal was announced.

   The merger extends a three-year boom in health care deal making, as companies
struggle to eliminate excess costs and focus on high-profit products, pressured
by governments and insurers to control prices.

   The merger requires the approval of both companies' shareholders and
government regulators.

   The companies said Novartis would have total annual sales of about $ 22
billion, excluding certain Ciba chemical and dye operations that the companies
plan to sell.

   Health care products would represent 59 percent of sales; agricultural
chemicals and products, 27 percent, and nutrition products, 14 percent.

   Ciba and Sandoz have a combined market value of about $ 62 billion, based on
yesterday's closing stock prices.

   Both companies announced big profit increases at the same time as their
merger plans.

   Ciba Geigy net profits rose to $ 1.9 billion in 1995, up 13 percent from
1994. Sandoz net profits increased 18 percent to about $ 1.7 billion.

   Novartis will be based in Switzerland, with Ciba Chairman Alex Krauer as
chairman. Daniel Vasella, chief executive of Sandoz's pharmaceutical business,
will be president.

   Sandoz is best known for drugs that suppress the immune system to ease kidney
and other organ transplants, including its top seller, Sandimmune.

   Sandoz also makes Lescol, a prescription drug that reduces cholesterol, along
with nonprescription drugs such as Ex-Lax laxatives, Tavist-D and Theraflu cold
medications. In 1994, it bought the Gerber line of baby foods.

   Ciba's best-selling products include Ritalin for hyperactivity; Voltaren, a
painkiller for arthritis, and a line of contact lenses and eye care products.

   Ciba's nonprescription medicines include Allerest allergy medicine, Acutrim
diet pills, Maalox antacid and Doan's pills for back pain.

   Pub Date: 3/08/96

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ASSOCIATED PRESS, Mega-merger: The $ 29 billion merger of Sandoz
and Ciba-Geigy is believed to be the world's second largest.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1996


                             2905 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                      March 8, 1996, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Business; Part D; Page 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: GIANT DRUG MERGER;
 CIBA-SANDOZ PLAN IS PART OF THE BIGGER SURVIVAL PICTURE

BYLINE: CHRIS KRAUL, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Sandoz Ltd. and Ciba-Geigy Ltd. have already shown a keen interest in buying
pieces of biotechnology companies, particularly in California. Their planned $
27-billion merger should enable them to invest even more, at the same time
spurring other drug giants to pursue further mega-mergers themselves, analysts
said Thursday.

   To survive in an intensely competitive new environment, analysts said, drug
companies must cut overlapping costs while also developing profitable, novel
treatments for diseases. Such "magic bullet" drugs offer the highest margins and
best price protection against tightfisted health maintenance organizations and
other health-care consumer groups forcing drug costs down.

   Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy realize that investing in biotechnology is a good way
to acquire rights to those drugs, said Richard van den Broek, a senior analyst
with Hambrecht & Quist investment bankers in New York. In total, they have
bought part or all of about 25 biotechnology firms, investments they have made
to ensure prominent roles in new product development.

   Ciba-Geigy's investments range from its mammoth $ 2-billion, 49.9% stake in
Chiron of Emeryville, Calif., to a $ 50-million holding in Isis Pharmaceuticals
of San Diego and a $ 7-million stake in tiny Cocensys of Irvine. Sandoz put $ 80
million into Systemix of Palo Alto. Outside California, Sandoz paid $ 330
million last year to buy Maryland-based Genetic Therapy.

   And industry observers expect that the combined company, to be called
Novartis, will make more cash available to biotechnology companies. By merging,
and by trimming administrative and distribution costs by as much as $ 1 billion
per year, Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy will have more to invest in product development.

   Meanwhile, such pressures are likely to help spur more consolidations among
giant drug companies. Other merger candidates include Warner-Lambert and
Schering-Plough, analysts say.

   Sam Isaly, an industry analyst in New York, said the Ciba-Sandoz deal could
prompt a spiral of ever bigger mergers as competitors leapfrog each other in
size and cut duplicate functions in an attempt to stay profitable.

   "Anybody below the top five in the industry has a very uncertain future, and
even the top five can't be sure," he said.

   Kenneth Lee, a biotechnology expert at the Ernst & Young professional
services firm in Palo Alto, said there have been at least 25 major drug company
mergers since 1990.

   The Ciba-Sandoz proposed merger and the mergers of numerous others in the
last five years, including Pharmacia and Upjohn, Glaxo and Wellcome, Roche
Holding and Syntex, and Bristol-Myers and Squibb, are the industry's response to
a new order in which powerful purchasing groups such as HMOs are demanding
lower-priced drugs.

   Drug company mergers have been on the upswing since 1990, and the trend has
accelerated over the last year or so, propelled partly by the disappointing
efforts of major drug companies such as Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy to come up with
new blockbuster products, Lee said.

   Consolidation is in store because the drug industry is still "incredibly
fragmented for a relatively mature industry," said Howard E. Greene, chairman of
Amylin Pharmaceuticals of San Diego. Drug industry leader Glaxo holds only a 6%
global market share, compared with the worldwide market share of 25% of auto
leader General Motors Corp.

   "This deal is a couple of dinosaurs banding together. The only thing they can
turn to is their mass--to become so big, so diversified, so everywhere that
nobody can put them out of business," Greene said

   Merging won't solve every big company's problems, said Alan L. Hillman,
director of the Center for Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania. He
said the drug industry is in the midst of a shakeout similar to that experienced
by the airline industry in the late 1970s.

   "You had a change in the environment with deregulation of airlines in the
Carter administration, just like you have a change in the environment now in
health care. They both went from more or less quiet, calm, quasi-regulated
industries to the point where the free market is railing against both," Hillman
said.

   Greene of Amylin said biotechnology investments are a good hedge for a drug
company to make.

   "The problem is that new product innovation requires a company to be smart,
take risks and move quickly--things that big organizations are known to be bad
at. Big companies are good at implementation and distribution, at getting a
penny or two out of the cost of a taillight. When it comes to inventiveness, big
companies are not known for that."

   Hillman of Penn was not so sanguine about the ultimate outcome of big drug
firms' biotechnology investments.

   "The question is, 'When do they pay off?' A few drugs have come to market,
but on the other hand there is a lot of money invested in gene therapy, and I'm
not sure we're very close to practical applications of that," Hillman said.
"Let's just say there will be some big winners and some really big losers."

   Associated Press contributed to this report.

   * GLOBAL POWERHOUSE

   Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz agree to one of biggest mergers ever. A1

   * LEADING DEALS

   A look at top 10 transactions among drug, all firms. D5


   A Look at the Companies

   Swiss drug makers Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Sandoz Ltd. plan to merge in a stock
swap valued at $ 27 billion--the second-largest corporate merger ever. The new
company would be called Novartis.

   Sandoz Ltd.

   * Headquarters: Basel, Switzerland

   * Chairman: Marc Moret

   * Employees: 49,882 worldwide at the end of last year

   * Major products: Produces and sells pharmaceutical, agricultural and
nutritional products such as seeds and crop protection formulas. It also makes a
rheumatoid arthritis drug, Sandimmun, or Neoral. It owns U.S. baby-food maker
Gerber Products. (Some may remember Sandoz as the company that held the original
patent for the hallucinogen LSD.)

   * 1995 revenue: $ 12.7 billion

   * 1995 earnings: $ 1.7 billion

   Thursday stock price: $ 58.875, up $ 10.75

   Ciba-Geigy Ltd.

   * Headquarters: Basel, Switzerland

   * Chairman: Alex Krauer

   * Employees: 84,000 worldwide at the end of 1995

   * Major products: Produces and sells pharmaceuticals, chemicals and
biological products. Its best-selling products include the arthritis drug
Voltaren, Ritalin for hyperactive children and the antacid Maalox.

   * 1995 revenue: $ 17.25 billion

   * 1995 earnings: $ 1.9 billion

   Thursday stock price: $ 62.50, up $ 15.25

   Sandoz ADRs*

   Quarterly highs and latest:

   Thursday: $ 58.875, up $ 10.75

   Ciba-Geigy ADRs*

   Thursday: $ 62.50, up $ 15.25

   * Both stocks trade in the United States as american depository receipts on
OTC bulletin lists.

   Sources: Bloomberg Business News, TradeLine, wire reports. Researched by
JENNIFER OLDHAM / Los Angeles Times

   Largest Deals

   Here are the biggest mergers and acquisitions worldwide:

   All Companies
                                 Date            Date
 Companies                       announced       effective
 Bank of Tokyo--Mitsubishi Bank  March 27, 1995  Pending
 Sandoz--Ciba-Geigy              March 7, 1996   Pending
 RJR Nabisco--                   Oct. 24, 1988   April 28, 1989
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
 Taiyo Kobe Bank--Mitsui Bank    Aug. 28, 1989   April 2, 1990
 McCaw Cellular Communications   Aug. 16, 1993   Sept. 19, 1994
 --AT&T
 Capital Cities/ABC              July 31, 1995   Feb. 9, 1996
 --Walt Disney
 Lloyds Bank--TSB Group          Oct. 9, 1995    Dec. 28, 1995
 Wellcome--Glaxo Holdings        Jan. 20, 1995   May 1, 1995
 Warner Communications--Time     March 4, 1989   Jan. 10, 1990
 US West--                       July 25, 1994   Nov. 1, 1995
 AirTouch Communications
                                 Deal value,
 Companies                       in billions
 Bank of Tokyo--Mitsubishi Bank        $33.8
 Sandoz--Ciba-Geigy                     27.0
 RJR Nabisco--                          25.0
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
 Taiyo Kobe Bank--Mitsui Bank           23.0
 McCaw Cellular Communications          18.9
 --AT&T
 Capital Cities/ABC                     18.8
 --Walt Disney
 Lloyds Bank--TSB Group                 15.3
 Wellcome--Glaxo Holdings               14.3
 Warner Communications--Time            14.1
 US West--                              13.5
 AirTouch Communications



   Drug Companies
                               Date            Date           Deal value,
 Companies                     announced       effective      in billions
 Sandoz--Ciba-Geigy            March 7, 1996   Pending              $27.0
 Wellcome--Glaxo Holdings      Jan. 20, 1995   May 1, 1995           14.3
 Squibb--Bristol-Myers         July 27, 1989   Oct. 4, 1989          12.1
 American Cyanamid             Aug. 2, 1994    Dec. 21, 1994          9.6
 --American Home Products
 SmithKline Beckman            March 31, 1989  July 26, 1989          7.9
 --Beecham Group
 Marion Merrell Dow--Hoechst   Feb. 28, 1995   July 18, 1995          7.1
 Pharmacia--Upjohn             Aug. 21, 1995   Nov. 2, 1995           7.0
 Marion Laboratories           July 17, 1989   Dec. 2, 1989           6.2
 --Dow Chemical
 Syntex--Roche Holding         May 2, 1994     Nov. 3, 1994           5.3
 Sterling Drug--Eastman Kodak  Jan. 25, 1988   Feb. 29, 1988          5.1



GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Head of Sandoz pharmaceuticals unit Daniel Vasella, far left,
and Ciba-Geigy Chairman Alex Krauer after merger announcement.  PHOTOGRAPHER:
Agence France-Presse GRAPHIC-CHART: A Look at the Companies, ROBERT BURNS / Los
Angeles Times GRAPHIC-TABLE: Largest Deals, Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996


                             2906 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  March 8, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: MERGER OF DRUG GIANTS: A New Image for Corporate Switzerland -- THE
DEAL;
Two Drug Makers Linking to Find Winning Products

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

BODY:

   Hoping to ride the next wave of breakthrough drugs, two Swiss giants of the
pharmaceuticals world, Sandoz Ltd. and Ciba-Geigy Ltd., are betting that their
combined research -- and pocketbooks -- can produce winners more quickly than
either could on its own.

   And at lower cost, too. The merged company, to be known as Novartis, plans to
lay off roughly 10 percent of its 135,000 workers in the next few years. The
agreement to merge, which is subject to shareholder approval, was announced late
Wednesday night.

    The drug industry has been marked by huge mergers in recent years, and more
are expected.

   "Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy have been rivals in Basel for over 100 years; we
thought they would be moving separately to find new partners," said David
Molowa, a pharmaceuticals analyst with Bear, Stearns & Company. "This was a big
surprise."

   Sandoz and Ciba, which will form the second-largest drug company after Glaxo
Wellcome, have both spent liberally on their own internal research as well as a
host of biotechnology deals with outsiders, which may take years to pay off.
Their large bets on biotechnology companies include Sandoz's stakes in Genetic
Therapy and Systemix, and Ciba's stakes in Viagene and Chiron. And they may use
their joint muscle to make other deals.

   At the Securities Data Company, which tracks merger and acquisition activity,
the combination is regarded as the third largest in business history. By the
firm's calculation, Sandoz is acquiring Ciba-Geigy, and the value of the deal as
measured by what it will pay is $30.09 billion. That would make it the
third-largest deal, after Mitsubishi Bank's acquisition of the Bank of Tokyo
($33.8 billion) and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's deal for RJR Nabisco ($30.6
billion).

   Some financial advisers to the pharmaceuticals companies suggest that the
merger could be regarded as the largest in business history, if the deal is
regarded as a measure of equals and measured by the companies' combined market
capitalization, about $63 billion.

   Securities analysts said the deal would generate a temporary surge in
earnings growth while the new company waits for the momentous, new one-of-a-kind
products that all drug makers desperately need. In Nasdaq trading, American
depository receipts of Sandoz were up $6.125, to $54.25, yesterday and
Ciba-Geigy's rose $15.25, to $62.50.

   Kristine Bryan, an analyst in London with CS First Boston, had projected a
gradual slide in annual growth in Sandoz earnings before the merger, 14 percent
down to 10 percent by 1998. She said Ciba's earnings would have grown around 10
percent a year before Wednesday's announcement.

   "All pharmaceutical companies are challenged in the late 1990's because of
the bountiful sales of the past and the rather lackluster pipeline for the
industry as a whole," she said.

   Important drugs lose their profitability with age. Prices drop as similar,
me-too drugs are approved. Patent protection for he original ground breakers
eventually runs out, and prices decline even further.

   Ms. Bryan said industry researchers seemed to have exhausted the
possibilities of drugs that block harmful behavior, including important
treatments for heart, digestive and cholesterol problems as well as
antidepression drugs.

   "The reaction has been to try to find ways to cut costs while waiting for
that next wave of technology, Ms. Bryan said. "Innovation is the long-term key"
to bolstering drug company earnings, she said.

   Among the large pharmaceuticals deals last year were the mergers of Glaxo and
Wellcome in Britain, Hoescht Roussel with Marion Merrell Dow and Pharmacia of
Sweden with Upjohn. In 1994, Roche Holding of Switzerland acquired Syntex and
American Home Products bought American Cyanamid.

   In the merger, which would be tax free under Swiss law, each Sandoz share
would be exchanged for one Novartis share. Each Ciba share would be exchanged
for 11/15 Novartis share. Sandoz shareholders would have 55 percent, and Ciba
shareholders 45 percent of the new company.
 The companies said they hoped to squeeze out annual savings of $1.49 billion by
mid-1999 by eliminating the 13,500 jobs, closing plants and dropping research in
some therapeutic categories, as well as some other economies.

   Most of the cuts would come from operations in pharmaceuticals, about $830
million; $349 million from agricultural chemicals and $315 million from
corporate and general administration.

   Both companies have research centers in North Jersey; Ciba in Summit, and
Sandoz in East Hanover, where each has already made some cutbacks. The main
research laboratories of both are near their head offices in Basel, a city on
the Rhine River at Switzerland's border with Germany and France. The companies
have not specified where the new reductions would be made.

   With an estimated $10.6 billion in pharmaceutical sales, Novartis would have
had the second-biggest drug sales last year, behind Glaxo Wellcome and ahead of
Merck & Company, said Arvind Desai, an analyst with Mehta & Isaly Worldwide
Healthcare Investments.

   He estimated that Hoescht-Marion Roussel would have been fourth;
Bristol-Myers Squibb, fifth; Pfizer, sixth; followed by Roche Holding, Johnson &
Johnson's pharmaceuticals unit, American Home Products and SmithKline Beecham.

   Novartis plans to concentrate on its high-profit lines: pharmaceuticals
agricultural chemicals and the Gerber Products nutrition unit that Sandoz bought
in 1994.

   The new company plans to spin off Ciba's specialty chemical unit, including
textile dyes, pigments and polymers to shareholders as a separate company.
Sandoz has already said it will sell or spin off its chemical and building
technology divisions.

   Prescription and over-the-counter drugs and other health care lines like
Ciba's eye care would then be 59 percent of sales. The nonprescription drugs
include Ex-Lax, Gas-X, Maalox, Tavist and Triaminic.

   Agricultural lines would be 27 percent and nutrition 14 percent of the new
company.

   Attempting to broaden its core businesses to include nutrition, in 1994
Sandoz acquired Gerber baby foods. It also produces Ovaltine, Wasa crisp breads
and the Optifast diet drink.

   Dr. Alex Krauer, chief executive of Ciba-Geigy, would be chairman of
Novartis. Dr. Daniel Vasella, chief of Sandoz, would be president and head of
the executive committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz, longtime rivals, plan to merge to create
the world's No. 2 drug company. They share the skyline of Basel, Switzerland.
(Associated Press)


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996


                             2907 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                      MARCH 8, 1996, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Drug Merger Benefits Bay Firms
 Both Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy have strong local ties

BYLINE: Carl T. Hall, Chronicle Staff Writer

BODY:

    The Bay Area's medical products industry is likely to benefit from the
blockbuster merger between Swiss drug giants Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz announced
late Wednesday.

   Both companies have a strong presence in Northern California.

   Ciba-Geigy bought 49.9 percent of Emeryville biotech giant Chiron Corp.  for
$ 1.4 billion in 1994. Sandoz spent $ 400 million in 1992 for a 50 percent stake
in SyStemix Inc., a Palo Alto biotech firm.

   Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz will form a new company, to be called Novartis, through
a cash-free exchange of stock.

   Although the merger will result in big job losses worldwide, Chiron and
SyStemix will have access to more technology from the combined entity, analysts
say. Instead of being linked to two middle-ranked drug companies, the local
firms will now be tied to the world's second largest pharmaceutical maker, just
behind the United Kingdom's Glaxo Wellcome.

   The deal ranks as the biggest drug industry merger on record. More
consolidations are expected as the pressure mounts on competitors worldwide.

   ''This sends a message to the pharmaceutical companies -- it's going to be
very competitive out there and you'd better be prepared to do battle,'' said
John McCamant, associate editor of the Berkeley-based Medical Technology Stock
Letter.

   The merger will cut about 45,000 jobs from a worldwide workforce of about
135,000, including 35,000 to be chopped when a specialty-chemicals unit is spun
off and another 10,000 positions to be eliminated within three years.

   But the job losses will hit mostly sales and support staffs scattered
throughout the world. The impact should be minimal in Northern California, where
the jobs are mostly in research and development.

   ''The Bay Area is on the upstream end of the pharmaceutical business,'' said
John Treat, management consultant at Booz Allen & Hamilton who authored a recent
report on international drug-industry investment.

   Terms of the Chiron-Ciba arrangement are not expected to change as a result
of the merger, according to officials at both companies.

   If anything, Chiron spokesman Larry Kurtz said, the deal makes several new
Sandoz technologies ''more accessible to Chiron,'' including research involving
human ''stem cells,'' thought to hold important keys to various immune- system
disorders.

   That research could dovetail with gene-therapy efforts under way at Chiron.
Sandoz also boasts an extensive array of university collaborations in the field
of genomics, including large banks of potentially lucrative genetic information.

   Chiron shares, which trade on Nasdaq, gained 1 11/16 yesterday to close at
118 3/16.

   The market value of the combined enterprise will be about $ 80 billion.
Combined 1995 sales of the two companies were $ 30 billion at current U.S.
exchange rates.

   Ciba's products include such medicine-cabinet mainstays as Allerest, Ex-Lax,
Maalox and Doan's pain pills and vision products.

   Sandoz, whose scientists concocted the now-illegal psychedelic drug LSD
during the 1950s, is best known for its Sandimmune transplant medicine and the
Gerber line of baby foods. Ciba's best-selling drugs include Ritalin, used to
treat attention deficit disorder in children, and the pain-killer Voltaren.

   Ciba Chairman Alex Krauer was named chief executive, while Sandoz CEO Daniel
Vasella will serve as president and chairman of a newly created executive
committee.

   Sandoz shareholders will end up with 55 percent of the newly issued shares,
and Ciba stockholders will get 45 percent.

   During trading yesterday on the Swiss stock market, each company gained
nearly $ 8 billion in market value. U.S. investors welcomed the news by bidding
up the share prices of most of the major drug and biotech companies.

   Schering-Plough, for example, added 1 1/2 to close at 61 3/8, while Lilly &
Co. ended up 2 3/8 at 67 3/8, both on the NYSE.

   One of the biggest percentage gainers was Cor Therapeutics, based in South
San Francisco, which rose 1 3/16, or 11.2 percent, to close at 11 13/16 on
Nasdaq. Protein Design Labs Inc. of Mountain View gained 1 5/16, or 5.1 percent,
to 26 15/16.


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1996


                             2908 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                              March 8, 1996 Friday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: 2 Swiss drug-making giants set to merge;
Consolidation makes sense, San Diego biotech leader says

BYLINE: CRAIG D. ROSE, Staff Writer

BODY:

   The merger of Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy creates more than a pharmaceutical titan.

   The marriage of the two Swiss drugmakers also consolidates a biotechnology
enterprise of unprecedented breadth, a local industry leader says. "This is the
first merger that makes sense, if your objective is to have access to as broad
an array of technologies as you can," said Dr. Stanley Crooke, chief executive
officer of Isis Pharmaceuticals in Carlsbad. There has been little overlap in
the biotech approaches pursued by the two drugmakers, noted Crooke, whose
company is collaborating with Ciba to develop cancer drugs.

   With the merger, Crooke added, "They have covered the (technological)
waterfront." Ciba, for example, is pursuing so-called anti-sense technology,
which seeks to intercept disease-causing messages at the genetic level, through
its drug projects with Isis. By contrast, Sandoz has pursued genetic therapy,
which seeks to alter the genes themselves, through the acquisition last year of
Genetic Therapy in Gaithersburg, Md. Sandoz also has agreed to provide $100
million over five years to fund research at The Scripps Research Institute in La
Jolla. William Beers, chief operating officer of Scripps, said he learned of the
merger through news accounts and anticipates no impact on the collaboration,
which is to begin in January. In return for its funding, Sandoz receives rights
to commercialize Scripps discoveries under an arrangement reached after
congressional critics claimed that a previous plan was a giveaway of federally
funded research. Crooke said the merger should also have no impact on his
company's collaboration with Ciba, which he valued in excess of $100 million.
But because the merger reduces the field of big multinational pharmaceutical
customers, Crooke said, it may be more difficult for earlier-stage biotech
companies to find partners to fund drug projects. "Every major merger adds to
the pressure on biotech companies, particularly when several biotech companies
are competing to fund the same technology," Crooke said. Kevin Kinsella, chief
executive officer of Sequana Therapeutics, offered a more optimistic assesment
of the deal for biotech. After a period of consolidation, Kinsella said, the
savings from the efficiency of the merger probably will free capital for more
biotech deals than might have been pursued by Sandoz and Ciba separately. A
secondary benefit for biotech will arise from the opportunity to recruit people
laid off by the big companies, he said.

   Sandoz and Ciba plan to lay off 10,000 as a result of the merger. Finally,
Kinsella said the size of the merged company will cause it to look outside for
innovative projects, which he argued are more efficiently pursued by smaller
biotech companies. "Once their internal pecking order is established, they'll be
looking for a lot more deals," he said.

GRAPHIC: 1 PIC; CAPTIONS: Dr. Stanley Crooke: His company collaborates with
Ciba. (C-3); PHOTOBY: FILE PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2909 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 March 7, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: 2 Swiss Drug Giants In a Surprise Merger To Be 2d in World

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

BODY:

   In a announcement that took the $200 billion worldwide pharmaceuticals
industry by surprise, two Swiss drug giants, Sandoz Ltd. and Ciba-Geigy Ltd.,
announced yesterday that they would merge, forming a biotechnology powerhouse
that would be the world's second-largest pharmaceutical maker.

   At first glance, one analyst put the value of the combined company at $62
billion, which would rank it as one of the largest mergers ever, if not the
largest.

    The merger, pending shareholder approval, would create a new company, to be
called Novartis, "based on the concept of a merger among equals," the companies
said in a joint statement issued from Basel, where both are based.

   Yesterday's announcement highlights an accelerating wave of multinational
drug company mergers. To survive in a hypercompetitive environment, companies
must lower costs in the era of managed care, and build the financial and
technical resources to bolster their global market share.

   Sandoz, the world's 14th-largest drug maker in terms of sales, has a 2.1
percent share of the international pharmaceuticals market, and Ciba, the
ninth-largest, has an international market share of 2.3 percent.

   Their combined 4.4 percent global share would form the world's second-largest
drug company, the companies said, after Glaxo Wellcome of Britain, and ahead of
Merck & Company of the United States.

   The merger "is a stunning move," said Samuel D. Isaly, a pharmaceuticals
analyst at Mehta & Isaly Worldwide Healthcare Investments. "Yes, it has been
postulated, but there has been no wave of rumors."

   The merger surpasses the biggest ones of recent years, including the takeover
of RJR Nabisco Holdings by Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company, as well as the
acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC last month by the Walt Disney Company.

   Viren Mehta, Mr. Isaly's partner, commented that the new company "will have a
total commitment to market leadership."

   The new company will be a strong presence in virtually every important area
of new-drug discovery and will be a player in the emerging fields of gene
therapy, antisense and combinatorial chemistry, as well as developing drugs for
Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous system disorders.

   "If you take all the pieces, theoretically you would have a biotechnology
colossus," said Mr. Isaly. "But those pieces have to be managed correctly to
make it all work."

   Ciba-Geigy owns just under 50 percent of the Chiron Corporation, one of the
three largest biotechnology companies, and has many joint ventures with other
smaller companies in the United States, where biotechnology is centered. Sandoz
has bought controlling interests in Gene Therapy Inc. and Systemix Inc., two
important gene therapy companies. It also owns a minority stake in Isis
Pharmaceuticals Inc., the leading antisense company. Sandoz is also a player in
genomics, through its investment in efforts at Johns Hopkins University and the
Max Planck Institute, while Ciba owns a stake in Myriad Genetics Inc.

   "We'll clearly have a much stronger partner than we had before," said Edward
Penhoet, Chiron's president and chief executive, in a telephone interview. "The
total stake in new technology between the two is awesome," he said. "We think
there are powerful synergies between the three of us."

   Stan Crooke, president and chief executive of Isis, called the deal "a
brilliant, technology-oriented strategy," but cautioned that there still could
be digestion problems in such a large merger. "Now: to make it work," he said.
"At least they're in the same town."

   The companies announced that within 12 months they will split off Ciba's
specialty-chemicals division. The intention to spin off of the chemical and
building technology divisions of Sandoz has already been disclosed.

   "It has always seemed appropriate that these two companies join," Mr. Isaly
said, "because the business mix is not perfect, but pretty close." He estimated
the market value of Sandoz at about $35 billion, and Ciba at $25 billion. "The
shares of both companies will rise," he predicted.

   The companies named Dr. Alex Krauer, the chairman and chief executive of
Ciba, as chairman of the new Novartis company. They said that Dr. Daniel
Vasella, head of the Sandoz pharmaceutical division, will become the company's
president and head of the executive committee.

   Earlier yesterday, the American depository receipts of the two companies rose
in over-the-counter trading. A.D.R.'s of Ciba-Geigy rose $1.50, to $47.25, while
A.D.R.'s of Sandoz rose 50 cents, to $48.125. For both companies, each A.D.R.
represents one-twentieth of a registered Swiss share.

   As of March 1, the combined companies had a market capitalization of $62.5
billion. The combined 1995 sales of the two companies was $30 billion. The two
companies have about 135,000 employees worldwide, of which Ciba has 83,000. The
companies said they would reduce their work force by 10 percent within the next
three years.

   The tax-free deal provides Sandoz shareholders with 55 percent, and Ciba
shareholders with 45 percent of the new shares in Novartis. Sandoz shareholders
will receive one Novartis share for each Sandoz share, and Ciba shareholders
will receive 1.06 Novartis shares for each Ciba share.

   Sandoz, which has publicly prided itself on its independence, has been
growing apace with, or slightly faster than, the world pharmaceutical market.

   A precedent for the union could be the merger last year of Pharmacia and
Upjohn, which combined as equals and has been highly successful, said Mr. Isaly.

   For Ciba, the merger could update its pharmaceuticals division. "The company
has a very old product line, with expired patents and a series of development
failures," Mr. Isaly said.

   But Ciba has done reasonably well in its nonpharmaceutical businesses,
including agricultural products and chemicals. Its pharmaceuticals include
Ritalin, a widely prescribed treatment for hyperactivity.

   The deal is but the latest in a series of drug-company mergers. Last May,
Hoechst A.G., the German chemical and pharmaceuticals giant, agreed to buy
Marion Merrell Dow Inc. Last year also saw the union of the Upjohn Company and
Pharmacia A.B. of Sweden; and of the British companies, Glaxo Holdings and
Wellcome P.L.C.

   And in 1994, Roche Holding of Switzerland acquired the Syntex Corporation,
and the American Home Products Corporation bought American Cyanamid.

   Sandoz's strengths are in pharmaceuticals, chemicals, pesticides and seeds.
Its 1994 purchase of Gerber baby foods was an effort to establish a third
dominant subsidiary, nutrition. In that line, Sandoz produces Ovaltine
chocolate-flavored drinks, Wasa crisp breads and the Optifast diet drink.

   The pharmaceutical business, its largest, produces a range of prescription
drugs that treat everything from mental illness to cardiovascular disease. One
of its products, Sandimmun, a 1982 drug that prevents the rejection of
transplanted organs from the body, is still the company's largest product and
has contributed as much as 20 percent to the drug division's revenues.

   Sandoz's diversification efforts have included buying a stake in such
biotechnology companies as Genetic Therapy and Systemix, and the company signed
a long-term cooperative agreement with Scripps Research Institute in the United
States.

   Ciba is the maker of Maalox antacid, Newvues disposable contact lenses,
Habitrol nicotine patches and Sunkist vitamins.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1996


                             2910 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                    March 07, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D09

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Drug Firms Sandoz, Ciba-Geigy to Merge

BYLINE: Kathleen Day, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   Two major Swiss pharmaceutical companies said yesterday they plan to merge in
a multibillion-dollar deal that the companies say will create the world's
second-largest drug company.

   Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Sandoz AG, both based in Basel, Switzerland, announced
late last night that the newly merged company, which will have annual revenue of
more than $ 29 billion, will be named Novartis.

   The merger will be accomplished through a tax-free exchange of stock between
the two companies, though a spokesman would not put a dollar value on the deal.

   The deal is the latest in a string of mergers in the drug industry, where
profit margins have been squeezed by efforts to control health care costs and
drug companies have sought to find partners with well-stocked pipelines of drugs
in development.

   The two drugmakers combine expertises in biotechnology, which many industry
executives believe will be the key to major new drugs in the next century.

   Ciba-Geigy has a 49.9 percent stake in a leading biotech company, Chiron
Corp. of Emeryville, Calif. And Sandoz last year paid $ 295 million to buy
Genetic Therapy Inc. of Gaithersburg, a company that is using information about
the human genetic code to devise new drugs.

   If shareholders approve the deal, Sandoz shareholders will own 55 percent of
the new company, and Ciba-Geigy shareholders 45 percent. The face value of the
new shares will be $ 16.60, a Ciba-Geigy spokesman said.

   Ciba-Geigy Chairman Alex Krauer will be chairman of Novartis. Daniel Vasella,
who is chief operating officer of Sandoz's pharmaceutical division, will be the
president.

   Ciba-Geigy, which employs 83,000 people worldwide, had sales of $ 17.3
billion last year. Sandoz, which employs 60,000, had sales of $ 11.8 billion.

   The value of Ciba-Geigy's 29 million outstanding shares yesterday was $ 32
billion, a company spokesman said.

   Last year, Glaxo Holdings PLC acquired Wellcome PLC in a $ 14.3 billion deal
that created the world's largest drug company. Also last year, Upjohn Co. merged
with Pharmacia AB in $ 6.8 billion deal. The year before, American Home Products
Corp. acquired American Cyanamid Co. for $ 9.7 billion.

LOAD-DATE: March 07, 1996


                             2911 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Science Desk

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: Tracing a Genetic Disease To Bits of Traveling DNA

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

BODY:

   SIFTING through the chromosomes of people with an inherited nerve disease,
researchers have made a strange discovery: woven neatly into the human genome
lie stretches of DNA once thought to belong exclusively to insects.

   The finding does not mean that humans harbor an untapped potential to sprout
wings or proboscises, or that people are any closer than previously thought to
flies and mosquitoes. Nor are bugs waging gene warfare on humans.

    The errant DNA is simply not the kind that codes for insect parts. It is,
rather, an entity called a transposon, a wandering, free-agent scrap of DNA that
can cut open genes and insert itself into places where it does not belong. The
only information it carries are the instructions for making the enzyme it needs
to cleave DNA.

   Also called "jumping genes," transposons exist in virtually every known
species, and have probably done so for millions of years. They are classified
into groups with names like "pogo" and "gypsy," in appreciation of their ability
to move around. Scientists have known about them and have argued about where
they came from and what, if anything, they are good for since the 1940's.

   The curious thing about the newly found one in people is that it is a member
of a category known as mariner transposons, which until recently were thought to
have invaded only the genes of insects. And although it is not the first mariner
transposon to be found in a person, it is the first to be linked to a disease:
the researchers who found it suggested that it and other transposons may
contribute to genetic disorders by causing breaks at vital points in the
chromosomes.

   At the time they identified the mariner, the scientists were not even looking
for transposons. Directed by Dr. James Lupski, at the Baylor College of Medicine
in Houston, they were studying Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, a disabling genetic
disorder that causes nerves in the hands and feet to deteriorate. Named for its
discoverers, the syndrome has nothing to do with teeth.

   The results, published in the March issue of the journal Nature Genetics,
were the latest surprise in a decade of research that has repeatedly led Dr.
Lupski down paths so tortuous that, he said with a laugh, even other scientists
sometimes lose his trail.

   In 1991, researchers in his laboratory discovered the genetic defect that
causes the syndrome. The defect was not a mutation, or biochemical change, in
the structure of a gene; nor was a gene missing. On the contrary, there was an
extra copy of part of a chromosome, a duplication that left the chromosome
slightly longer than normal. That type of defect had never been linked to a
human illness before, although scientists did know of disorders like Down
syndrome that were caused by an entire extra chromosome.

   "We don't usually think of excess DNA as much of a problem," Dr. Lupski said.
But his patients, disabled to varying degrees, provided evidence that it could
be.

   In humans, the genes reside on 23 pairs of chromosomes. Generally, a given
trait is determined by two copies of a gene, one on each of a matched pair of
chromosomes. But in Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, the partial duplication in one
chromosome in pair No. 17 gives patients three copies of a series of genes,
perhaps 30 or more.

   Dr. Lupski's group zeroed in one of those genes as the key to the syndrome.
It contains the instructions for making a protein in myelin, the fatty substance
that encases nerve fibers in the extremities. Myelin acts as an insulator for
electrical signals. It breaks down in Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, and, as a
result, so does nerve transmission, which can lead to atrophy of the hands and
feet.

   The duplication was a tipoff to the origin of the syndrome. Geneticists have
known for a long time that duplications result when there is a glitch in a
normal process known as crossing over. That process, which occurs during the
formation of sperm and eggs, allows the paired chromosomes to swap pieces of DNA
with each other. To do that, the chromosomes arrange themselves so that like
segments line up, and some of the segments trade places. The result,
recombination, is a vital means in all species of stirring the genetic pot and
creating diversity -- and it is one reason that children can turn out so
different from either of their parents.

   But the swap can go wrong. Sometimes, one chromosome gives up a bigger piece
of DNA than it gets from its partner. In that case, the crossing over is
unequal, and one chromosome winds up with a duplication, while the other
sustains a deletion. If either one gets into a sperm or egg that goes on to
become a baby, the child may be born with a genetic disorder.

   Dr. Lupski and his colleagues showed that unequal crossing over near the
myelin gene on chromosome 17 could produce a duplication that would lead to
Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome. If, instead, the chromosome with the deletion were
passed on to the next generation, the result would be another nerve disorder, a
milder one called H.N.P.P., which stands for hereditary neuropathy with
liability to pressure palsies.

   The missing piece of the puzzle, though, was why unequal crossing over should
happen so often at the same spot on chromosome 17. Charcot-Marie-Tooth and
H.N.P.P. are not uncommon diseases, and the same defects kept turning up in the
majority of patients.

   Dr. Lupski and his team knew that the answer should lie in the DNA sequence
of the duplicated segment of the chromosome, a region of some 1.5 million DNA
subunits, or base pairs. Lawrence Reiter, a graduate student, set about mapping
that segment in DNA from healthy people and those with the nerve diseases.

   Mr. Reiter found several things that taken together, helped explain what was
happening. First, the segment included two smaller sections at either end that
were repetitions of each other. The myelin gene lay between them. The
repetitions would increase the chances that the two chromosomes would misalign
during crossing over: the first repetition on one chromosome, for instance,
might mistakenly line up with the second repetition on the other. The
misalignment could lead to segments of unequal size being exchanged.

   But misalignment alone could not explain the high rate of problems in the
region; for crossovers to occur, the chromosomes must also break, and the
scientists wondered where exactly the breaks were occurring, and what might be
causing them.

   "To our surprise," said Dr. Lupski, "we also found that in the majority of
patients, the crossover happened in a very small region. We wanted to know what
the sequence characteristics were that might make that region a hot spot."

   To find out, they compared the sequence to ones that had already been studied
by other researchers and logged into computer banks.

   "Larry threw the sequence into the database," Dr. Lupski said. What came out
were mariner transposons, located quite close to the hot spot. "He pulled out
16, 17, 20 different insect transposons," Dr. Lupski said. The closest matches
were to ones found in green lacewings, a type of fly, and in the African
mosquitoes that carry malaria.

   "He presented evidence which was hard to refute," Dr. Lupski said. "But I
certainly wanted additional confirmation, and we also had people who do this
kind of thing for a living, matching sequences, look at it." They backed up Mr.
Reiter. Clearly, the mariner transposon existed in all human genes -- in healthy
ones as well as in those from patients with the nerve disorders.

   Its proximity to a genetic defect supported an idea held by many geneticists:
that transposons, because of their ability to break and enter DNA, are
potentially agents of genetic change, and of evolution. Sometimes known as
"selfish DNA," they usually carry little information beyond what they need to
cruise around the genome. That consists of the instructions for making a
transposase, an enzyme that frees them to move around by cutting them loose from
their host's DNA. Then, although they are not viruses, they can, like viruses,
use their hosts' genes to make copies of themselves.

   The transposon that the Baylor team found turned out be be inactive, so
mutated that it could no longer produce any enzymes. But the team suggested that
it might still cause chromosome breaks, by acting as a target for other enzymes
that can cut DNA. Those enzymes, Mr. Reiter said, could be produced by other,
active mariner transposons in the human genome. None have been found so far, but
their existence has not been ruled out, either.

   Dr. David Hartl, an evolutionary biologist at Harvard University who found
the first mariner transposon, agreed with that theory. But, he added, although
the mariner in this case appears to be harmful, transposons might also help
bring about helpful genetic changes. "Maybe a mariner can play a role in
regulating rates of recombination and perhaps generating duplications that are
useful," he said.

   Based on its similarity to the mariners found in insects, Dr. Hartl said,
this one probably originated in an insect. "But we don't know whether it came
directly from insects to humans," he said. "For all we know it went from insect
to lizard to chicken to human." Probably, it was carried by a virus, but Dr.
Hartl said he could not rule out Mr. Reiter's suggestion that the malaria
mosquitoes may have had a role.

   "We can't say it came from an insect," said Dr. Hugh Robertson, an
entomologist and geneticist at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Dr. Robertson has been studying mariners intensively for several years. "But we
can say its closest relatives are in insects. But did it come from an insect, or
jump into insects? We don't know what was really going on."

   Of more concern to Dr. Lupski were the implications for patients of
discovering the mariner. He expected it to lead to simpler diagnostic tests that
would make it easier to detect both Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome and H.N.P.P. In
addition, the finding may shed light on other genetic disorders. Looking further
ahead, he said, knowledge of the transposon may one day help researchers to
develop gene therapies. Transposons themselves might be used to carry treatment
directly to the genes.

   "The classic concept behind gene therapy that most people understand is
simple," he said. "There's a broken gene, so I'll fix it by putting in a good
one." That wouldn't work with Charcot-Marie. "You'd make it worse if you put in
an extra copy, and there ain't nothing broken to fix," he said. "But now you
know you should consider a treatment that would regulate the gene. This helps us
get an understanding of how to direct our therapeutic approach."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Green lacewing has DNA similar to segments involved in diseases.
("The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Insects and Spiders"
(Knopf))(pg. C5)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1996


                             2912 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution
                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      March 4, 1996, Monday, ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 03D

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: NEWS FOR KIDS;
A BIG medicine chest can be opened up at Fernbank

BYLINE: Bill Hendrick; STAFF WRITER

BODY:


   Ever worked at a computer that responds in a soft voice when you touch it? Or
one that encourages you to ask all kinds of tough questions that might stump
your smartest teachers?

   There's a bunch of these super-smart machines at the Fernbank Museum of
Natural History's new traveling show, "Medicines: The Inside Story," and some
really interesting stuff to see --like a pharmacy made to look like a drugstore
of the 1920s.

   But it's the talking computers --scientists call them "interactive" - -that
you'll probably like best.

   One computer displays a mortar and pestle, a symbol for drugs. Touch it when
you're ready, and 12 more icons, or images, pop up, giving you the chance to ask
about anything from aspirin to vitamins.

   Let's say you touch on the aspirin icon. You hear a voice saying that aspirin
was first introduced in 1899 in Germany and that it was the first medicine ever
available in the form of a compressed tablet.

   Touch an icon that looks like a human heart, and the computer starts talking
about medicines called beta blockers, a class of drugs used to prevent heart
attacks and to treat heart problems, such as high blood pressure, angina and
irregular heart rhythms.

   Another computer, tucked inside small rooms that give you a little privacy,
shows a funny-looking human hand. Touch it, and you suddenly see right through
the skin --to the bones and veins and muscles. It's an arthritic hand, the
computer says, adding that "since ancient times, humans have sought substances
that could cure illnesses" and alleviate pain and noting that "plants provided
the first treatment."

A rusty saw?

   The exhibit has a bunch of display cases full of medical odds and ends, such
as rusty saws (that's how they chopped off diseased arms and legs in the old
days), knives and scissors, a box of "Medicinal Whiskey, 100 proof," and what's
known as a straitjacket --a kind of rubber shirt with straps that used to be put
on crooks and mentally disturbed people to keep them from moving too much.

   One big TV screen shows a movie called "Chain Terminator," and if you get too
close, it'll make you dizzy. It shows how a medicine swishes through the throat
and stomach and heart and intestines like a roller coaster at Six Flags,
flipping upside down and every which way before reaching, attacking and killing
a virus.

   The exhibit is fun, not scary. Look forward to some pretty weird things:
giant pieces of broccoli, huge seashells and a big bowl of thick- looking
chicken soup that doesn't look like it would taste so hot.

   Nearby, at the planetarium at Fernbank Science Center, you can see a show
called "InnerSpace," which also puts you deep inside a human body. Because
you're in a 500-seat auditorium looking at a 70-foot-wide dome that's 45 feet
high, you'll feel more like a germ than a doctor or druggist. Just hang on for
the ride.

   Robert Jordan, 12, was as serious as a heart surgeon making an incision with
a scalpel. But the seventh-grader from Marietta's Smitha Middle School was
really staring at an "interactive computer" in the new medicines show. It was a
bit like negotiating the hopeless mazes of Nintendo. But instead of trying to
avoid bottomless pitfalls, Robert was trying to save an imaginary life, clicking
on a mouse that let him choose various molecules to fight a disease growing on
the simulated human body on the computer screen.

   "I'm trying to cure this guy," Robert said. But he didn't pick the right
molecules. "Uh oh, I didn't get the tumor." His classmate Jesse Parker, 12, also
said he liked the exhibit.

   "I want to be a doctor or a veterinarian when I grow up," Jesse told News for
Kids. "Or a basketball or football player. But I'm not sure it's better than a
video game."

   The colorful loop-de-loops depict what scientists call a "double helix" of
DNA, spiraling from the nucleus of a human cell. DNA is the genetic material
that determines the color of our eyes, our hair type, and all the different
proteins in our bodies. Gene therapy, an exciting new way to treat disease,
takes a gene like this one and puts it into a cell that needs it.

   You've heard of virtual reality --when you put on a special helmet and it
transports you to someplace else. You've probably seen it in science-fiction
movies. In this picture, a researcher is using virtual reality to look at
computer-generated molecules from all sides, and in three-dimensional space.

   Imagine you're a caveman on a hunting trip. You start to feel achy, too sick
to go on. Your feed bag is empty and you're hungry enough to eat, well, the bark
off a tree. So you do. You rip a branch from a willow tree and chew. After a
while you feel much better. You will remember that willow bark helps soothe
pain, but it won't get a name until 1899: aspirin. How did our ancestors find
out that willow bark contains pain- fighting chemicals? It had to be strictly by
chance, some desperate person chewing on the bark, scientists say. And many
medicines have been discovered that way --by accident. The search for headache
relief has never stopped. This is a headache remedy called Brain-Oids, which was
sold around 1900. There were hundreds of such medicines on the market back then.

   These mortars and pestles, once the main method used to mix drugs, are among
the many old items you'll see at Fernbank. The exhibit features the largest
collection of such pharmaceutical artifacts from all over the world.

GOOD FOR YA!

   Eat that chicken soup when you've got a cold. Chicken soup won't cure a cold,
but scientists have learned that chicken contains a natural amino acid that is
similar chemically to a drug that is used to treat respiratory infections.

   Former President Bush doesn't like broccoli --but you should at least
consider it. The vegetable packs a powerful punch, stimulating enzymes that
fight lung, colon and breast cancer.

   A plateful of pasta is good for you, because carbohydrates may boost brain
levels of a chemical called serotonin, which helps control your mood.

GRAPHIC:  Chart: 'MEDICINES: THE INSIDE STORY'
 What: A 3,900-square-foot exhibit in six galleries examining what
 medicines are, how they are discovered and developed, how they work and
 the role they play in society.
 Where: Fernbank Museum of Natural History, 767 Clifton Road N.E.
 When: Now through September
 Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mondays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.
 Sundays Admission: $ 9.50 adults, $ 8 students and senior citizens, $ 7
 kids 3-12. Information: 404-378-8140, general information; 404-370-8080,
 ext. 2236, to schedule field trips; 404-378-4311, Fernbank Science Center
 (planetarium).
 Chart: MEDICAL HIGHLIGHTS
 about 8000 B.C.: Prehistoric people practice the first-known surgical
 treatment.
 about 2500 B.C.: Egyptian physicians develop a system for treating
 diseases.  400s B.C.: Hippocrates shows diseases have natural, rather
 than supernatural, causes.
 A.D.100s: Galen is the first to do experiments centered around human
 anatomy.  1100s: The first university medical schools are developed in
 Europe.  1543: Vesalius publishes the first scientific study of human
 anatomy.  Mid-1500s: Ambroise Pare, the "father of modern surgery,"
 introduces advanced surgical techniques.
 1628: Englishman William Harvey starts modern physiology with
 breakthrough blood circulation information.
 1670s: Anton van Leeuwenhoek discovers bacteria.
 1796: England's Edward Jenner gives the first officially recognized
 vaccination, against smallpox.
 1842-1846: American dentist William Morton introduces the use of ether,
 the first practical anesthetic.
 1850s: Florence Nightingale founds the modern nursing profession during
 the Crimean War.
 Mid-to late-1800s: Germany's Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch prove that
 certain bacteria cause certain diseases.
 1865: English surgeon Joseph Lister introduces antiseptic methods to
 surgery.  1895: Wilhelm Roentgen of Germany discovers X-rays, used to
 diagnose diseases. 1898: Pierre and Marie Curie (right) discover radium,
 used to treat cancer.  About 1900: Sigmund Freud develops an important
 method of treating mental illness.
 Early 1900s: Vitamins are identified.
 1928: Penicillin, the first antibiotic drug, is discovered.
 Early 1950s: The first successful polio vaccine is developed.
 1954: American surgeons transplant a kidney, the first successful organ
 transplant.
 1990: American surgeons first use gene therapy to treat a patient.
 SOURCE: Encyclopedia Britannica
 Color photo: Interactive computer at Fernbank Museum of Natural History. /
 JOHN SPINK / Staff
 Color photo: Double helix model of DNA./ "Medicines: The Inside Story"
 Color photo: Virtual reality helmet./ "Medicines: The Inside Story"
 Color photo: Brain-Oids headache remedy, sold around 1900./ "Medicines:
 The Inside Story"
 Color photo: Mortars and pestles./ "Medicines: The Inside Story"
 Photo: Marie Curie in her laboratory
 Illustration: Human circulatory system
 Illustration: Egyptian physician

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996


                             2913 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                      March 3, 1996, Sunday, Home Edition

SECTION: Los Angeles Times Magazine; Page 22; Times Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 6231 words

HEADLINE: THE DOTS ARE ALMOST CONNECTED....THEN WHAT?;
 MAPPING THE HUMAN GENETIC CODE; THEY'VE ALMOST CRACKED THE HUMAN GENETIC CODE.
THAT'S THE GOOD; NEWS. WHAT HAPPENS AFER THAT IS THE HARDER PART.

BYLINE: Laurie Garrett and Laurie Garrett, Laurie Garrett is science and medical
writer for Newsday and author, of "The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in
a World Out of, Balance," available in paperback from Penguin

BODY:

   It is New Year's Eve 2020 and, predictably, the ER of County/USC Medical
Center is swamped with victims of drunk drivers and bar brawls. Shouting to no
one in particular are the partiers whose proclivity for hallucinogenic highs
prompted ingestion of excessive quantities of the drug du jour, ENDORPH. A host
of psychological breakdown cases, battered by holiday blues, are recuperating
from a variety of creative suicide attempts. And the normal load of heart
attacks, seizures, births, domestic violence, beatings and pediatric illnesses
is providing Dr. Fiona James' staff with hundreds of diversions from late-night
boredom.

   James runs a well-oiled ER machine, admired nationwide for its efficiency and
cost-effectiveness. Everyone knows their duties and performs them well. James
and her residents bear ultimate responsibility for the most crucial patient
decisions, which are usually based on genetic analysis.

   "Seizure on open ward! We need a doctor over here STAT!" shouts one of James'
nurses.

   "What do we know about this guy," James asks the nurse as she grabs an air
injection syringe loaded with neurotranquilizers. After shooting the chemicals
into the teenage boy's arm and noting the expected instantaneous easing of his
spasms, James looks expectantly at the nurse.

   "Driver's license says Robert McIsaac, age 17, from Canoga Park," nurse Tom
Shaddiford reads.

   "Canoga Park? What's he doing way over here?" James asks. "Are there any
relatives here?"

   Shouts in the ER waiting room fail to roust anyone connected to young
McIsaac, and the ward secretary says the teen wandered in on his own, barely
coherent at the time.

   "But he had this," the secretary says as she thrusts a 2-by-3-inch plastic
card at James. "I already read his phone number off of it and called his
parents. They're on their way in, and they e-mailed valid approval for emergency
procedures as needed."

   Excellent, James thinks.

   Reaching into her pocket, the ER chief fumbles for her Gen-Com. Damn, where
is it? At last she feels the familiar little slab of hard plastic, pulls it out,
flips open the case and slides McIsaac's card in a slot behind the miniature
video screen. A color 3-D image fills the screen, depicting McIsaac from all
angles while a scrolling line of data across the bottom lists the boy's
identification and vital statistics.

   Ignoring the image, James types quickly on the tiny keyboard:
SEIV.ent.EPILEP? In 10 seconds the powerful 400 megabyte mini-computer provides
the following information: No seizure history. No head injury history. No trauma
history.

   James then types: GENSRCH. Knowing this will take a bit longer, the physician
takes a glance at heart rate and temperature data on the boy. Satisfactory. She
turns back to her hand-held Gen-Com and whistles at the readout.

   "Bad?" Shaddiford asks.

   "Uh huh. The kid's got the Chromosome 10 partial epilepsy gene coupled with
the glucose intolerance gene GP6 and . . . ." "OK, I get the picture,"
Shaddiford says. "I'll prep the kid for gene therapy. Shall I wheel him straight
upstairs now or wait for the parents?"

   "Wait," James says as she reprograms her Gen-Com to run a genetic lipids
utilization profile on the DNA card from an apparent heart attack victim lying
beside young McIsaac.


   *

   In the early days of 1996, things are progressing extremely well in the
global effort to sequence the entire human genetic code. The Human Genome
Project, executed by the U.S. National Institutes of Health and the Department
of Energy, is way ahead of schedule. So are its counterparts in Europe and
Japan.

   There are 3 billion bits of information, called nucleotides, that make up a
human being's genetic database. By the end of 1995, scientists had very roughly
mapped the locations and identities of all of those nucleotides. Most of the
nucleotides are long, repetitive sequences that seem to serve structural or
regulatory purposes of some kind, maintaining the shape and maintenance of the
DNA. But about 100,000 stretches of the DNA are special: they are genes that
determine everything from your hair color (undyed, of course) to whether or not
your child will attain suitable stature and musculature to one day play in the
NBA.

   Though few doctors today are using this mountain of newly discovered
information in clinical practice, the frontiers of medicine all revolve around
the human genome, a duplicate set of 23 chromosomes nestled inside all the cells
of the body (except red blood cells) that compose each individual's genetic
imprint. In years to come, physicians will base diet and medication
recommendations for heart attack victims, for example, upon knowledge of their
genetic profiles concerning cholesterol uptake. Diabetics will be treated in
more refined fashion, with the gamut of their genetic/hormone interactions fully
evaluated. And in the long term, scientists hope to find ways to alter medical
fate, directly changing faulty genes or adding genes that will help would-be
patients resist the deleterious impact of their inherited programming.

   When the National Research Council first gave the green light to the Human
Genome Project in 1988, only 400 of those human genes had been identified and
located on the 23 human chromosomes, and less than one tenth of 1% of all
nucleotides had been deciphered. By mid-1995, Eric Lander and his team of MIT
hotshots at the prestigious Whitehead Institute had created a very rough outline
of 90% of the human genome; 35,000 human genes had been identified, 7,500 of
which have been located on the DNA. Less than six months later, the Lander team
announced completion of a full human map that's good enough to roughly locate
every known human gene.

   Given that the effort for approval only began in 1987, this has to constitute
one of the most remarkable achievements of our scientifically noteworthy
century. Back in 1987, a National Research Council committee predicted that an
all-out international campaign might succeed in deciphering the entire sequence
of nucleotides in human chromosomes within 15 years, at a cost of about $ 200
million per year to U.S. taxpayers, and additional smaller monetary burdens to
the European Community and Japan. If the Human Genome Project maintained its
1990 pace it would certainly achieve that goal.

   But it's not maintaining that pace--it's going far more rapidly. Recent
technological and logistic improvements in deciphering capacity may result in
completion of the auspicious goal five years ahead of schedule. (See sidebar.)

   So, pronounces Lee Hood, "The 21st century is going to be the century of
biology. There's no question about it."

   Excited, optimistic and supercharged with energy, Dr. Leroy Hood has
been--and continues to be--a key pioneer in the human genome revolution. First
at Caltech and now at the University of Washington in Seattle in a seat endowed
by computer mogul Bill Gates, Hood has invented machinery that enables
scientists to rapidly decipher genetic codes. Since its inception he has served
as the unofficial cheerleader of the Human Genome Project.

   And the crowd is roaring with scientific approval. From Tokyo to Toledo, Los
Angeles to London, scientists have eagerly enjoined Hood's quest, not only
helping to sequence pieces of DNA but inventing faster, more accurate ways to
accomplish the task. The pace as we approach the millennium is dizzying. The
excitement is palpable among gene hunters. Dr. Francis Collins, who heads the
Human Genome Project, predicts the sequencing effort will be finished by 2002, a
full three years ahead of schedule. And there are reasons to believe it may even
be accomplished by the year 2000.

   Last spring at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island, scientists
compared notes and managed to present maps for eight of the 23 human
chromosomes. The maps are good enough to help an L.A. freeway driver, by
analogy, find an exit leading to Westwood off the Santa Monica Freeway, but not
yet adequately refined to guide that driver to the Westwood Boulevard entrance
of UCLA. A still rougher map was completed last fall by the Centre d'Etude du
Polymorphisme Humain in Paris spanning 75% of the human genome. Its specificity
is good enough to, continuing the analogy, distinguish the San Fernando Valley
from Central Los Angeles, but not to pinpoint towns or roads. Eric Lander's map,
which is rougher still, could just about distinguish California from Nevada.

   Rough as these maps may be, they are a far cry from where the effort stood a
decade ago, when the map-makers had about enough information to recognize the
existence of continents and oceans and little more.

   Nearly every day another gene is discovered, mapped along the DNA, or
sequenced. Most of the fervor and scientific competition is directed at genes
thought to cause diseases, about 100 of which had been found, or at least hinted
at, by the end of 1995. The list of disease genes that have either been
discovered, or whose location on the genome has been elucidated by more than one
laboratory, includes several types of cancer, Huntington's disease, cystic
fibrosis, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, myotonic dystrophy, some forms of
epilepsy, neurofibromatosis, improper lipid utilizations that contribute to
heart disease and dozens more.

   In addition, the list of basic human attributes that have allegedly been
traced to specific genes or mapped on chromosome sites is expanding almost
daily: from homosexuality to color vision--even a putative obesity gene that
makes some people store vast amounts of fat. Many genes that are experienced in
adulthood as cancer-promoting turn out to be essential signals for embryonic
growth--signals intended to shut down following fetal development. Thus, the
search for cancer genes is opening startling windows on basic fetal and infant
growth.

   So massive is the amount of quarternary nucleotide information that no single
computer system is adequate to the task of its data storage and analysis. The
Department of Energy stores most of the U.S. database at Los Alamos National
Laboratory, using supercomputers originally designed for nuclear weapons and war
games use. The European Community recently completed construction of the
Bioinformatics Institute in Cambridge, England. Funded at a level of $ 8.5
million per year, the institute has enough computer power to process information
on the more than 300 million human, microbe, plant and animal nucleotides
already fully sequenced and the capacity to grow at a rate of 75% per year. Even
at that, scientists see the institute as a mere stopgap measure. In order to
completely understand how the data that is encoded in DNA ends up controlling a
liver cell in one way, operating a neuron in the brain in another manner and
functioning improperly in a breast cancer cell, new computer capacities will be
needed--ones that can handle more than 100,000 interacting functions
simultaneously in real time, Hood says.

   All this computer power is needed to help humanity decode and understand its
own genetic dictates. The level of complexity in DNA signaling is well beyond
the simple binary system used by computers. Ironically, however, the basic DNA
code is quite simple. As University of Washington molecular biologist Maynard
Olson has noted, the nucleotide database in our DNA computers is only 750
megabytes in size, fills a microscopic amount of space in human eggs or sperm
and, once elucidated, any individual's personal genome sequence could be stored
on a single CD-ROM.

   "The Human Genome Project should get on with producing this disk, on time and
under budget," Olson declared in a recent Science magazine editorial.

   Geneticist Peter Goodfellow of England's Cambridge University believes that
within five years all of the key genes responsible for complex human diseases
will have been identified. Even more bullish is Harvey Lodish of the Whitehead
Institute, who is convinced that science is just a few years away from having
3-D full-color computer presentations of DNA data for such things as speech,
musical ability, body shape and eye color. Indeed, Lodish envisions a time when
fetal DNA may be loaded into a computer and parents will be able to "see," via
computer, the child's predicted physical appearance and talents--perhaps even
hear its simulated voice of the future.


   *

   Though such forecasts are controversial, virtually all scientists in the
field would agree with Nobel laureate Walter Gilbert's bottom-line prediction:
"The results of the Human Genome Project will produce a tremendous shift in the
way we can do medicine, and attack problems of human disease. And the
understanding that will come from this is likely to give us as people a much
stronger feeling of how genetically influenced we are."

   Based on their collective writings and presentations at recent scientific
meetings, it also seems apparent that human genome scientists would agree with
Hood's prediction that within 20 years all Americans will carry credit card-type
plastic strips that contain computer readouts of their personal genomes.

   "I can't imagine that won't be true," Hood says. "I think that's absolutely a
given. Your entire genome and medical history will be on a credit card. You just
put it in there a computer and a physician will instantly know what he's dealing
with. Physicians will really then have to look at humans as complex systems
analysis."

   Mischievously, Hood enjoys asking physicians to describe what their jobs will
be like in 25 years. "They can't do it," he says. "We all have pretty limited
imaginations. But physicians can't see how all this will affect them."

   Hood envisions medical practice that is fundamentally guided by genetic
information. Doctors would lean heavily upon patient information obtained from
each individual's genome credit card, he says, the most important aspects of
which will be probabilities. Few of the disease-relevant genes are likely to
represent absolutes--to indicate that a child will definitely grow up and suffer
lethal cardiovascular disease by middle age, for example. Rather, the genes will
offer a complex array of statistical possibilities, all of which may be
influenced by thousands of environmental, dietary, personality and other
factors.

   "So the vision is that very powerful computational tools, coupled with
genomic information, will revolutionize medicine," Hood says. "We'll see emerge
in the next 10 to 15 years a whole new field of biomedicine that will be manned
by mathematicians. They'll be in a position to do DNA fingerprints and compute
your future health history for you. And then we will have moved into an era of
preventive medicine," wherein avoidance of certain environmental factors known
to have a detrimental impact on a patients' particular genes or direct
alteration of those genes will reduce--even eliminate--the possibility of
developing the otherwise likely disease.

   Affymetrix, a Santa Clara-based company, has already embarked on Step
1--development of a one-centimeter-sized chip that contains all the genetic
information needed to instantly identify 40 or 50 cancer genes from a single
droplet of white blood cells. The chip is composed of 250,000 pieces of DNA, all
of which are mirror-image mates to known disease genes. If your own genome
contained one of the troublesome genes on the Affymetrix chip it would bind to
its embedded mate, triggering a signal that would instantly be read. In
principle the Affymetrix approach could be used to screen for tens of thousands
of genes at a time. Geneticist David Burke of the University of Michigan is
working on a DNA silicon chip that may be able to accomplish the same feat, but
on a microscopic scale.

   And in January, the Maryland-based OncorMed company announced commercial
availability of a test for BRCA.1, the gene responsible for some types of breast
cancer. The following month the company released a colon cancer genetic test.

   Once a potentially troublesome gene is identified, the next logical step is
gene therapy, a vague term that implies adding a missing or deficient gene, or
removing a bad gene.

   Five years ago, Drs. Michael Blaese, Steven Rosenberg and W. French Anderson
began a series of pioneering gene therapy experiments at the National Institutes
of Health, performed mostly on children who suffered from life-threatening
genetic deficiency diseases. Their approach was to genetically engineer the
children's bone marrow cells, inserting the needed genes, and then reinfuse the
altered cells back into the children's bloodstreams. It hasn't proven
miraculous, but the procedure produced no deleterious side effects.

   Since 1990, many other attempts at gene therapy have been pursued, either
through laboratory genetic engineering of the patient's DNA or via altered
viruses or microscopic lipid capsules, both of which can theoretically carry
needed genes into the human bloodstream. The potential benefits of gene therapy
sent Wall Street to the buying floors during the early 1990s and prompted a
frenzy of venture capital interests in biotechnology.

   But last summer a large-scale review of progress in the field forced NIH
director Dr. Harold Varmus to conclude that "there is still little or no
evidence of therapeutic benefit in patients, or even in animal models."

   In August, Varmus ordered all the gene therapists at NIH back to their
drawing boards, where the intellectual challenge of devising ways to supplement
or alter human genes is to be rethought. And in December, a panel of experts
appointed by Varmus issued a report that condemned most gene therapy efforts as
"pure hype," concluding that Wall Street and the public have been misled into
believing that gene therapy was right around the corner. Not so, they said.

   This after more than 567 Americans and dozens of Europeans had undergone some
type of gene therapy in about a hundred different experiments. An entire gene
therapy industry has developed since 1982, and 60% of all such experiments are
conducted in the private sector. No one can say that gene therapy suffers for a
lack of monetary and scientific support--on the contrary, the NIH has spent an
average of $ 200 million a year on the technology since 1988 and it is estimated
that the private sector's spending has more than equaled that sum.

   All those costly failures were directed at the conceptually easy task of
adding a missing gene. Nobody has the foggiest idea how to change or remove a
bad gene that is causing cancer or Alzheimer's in an adult.


   *

   The easiest approach to gene therapy, from a biological point of view, is at
the "the front end," as some scientists put it, in a test tube-fertilized human
egg before it is implanted in a woman's uterus. Using pre-implantation diagnosis
(PID), geneticists could screen pre-embryos for hundreds, even thousands, of
traits ranging from diseases to eye and hair color. It would be relatively easy
to either destroy those pre-embryos that carry undesired traits, or alter the
genes. Whatever changes were made in the tiny one-to-eight-celled creature would
be repeated in all its cells as the pre-embryo grew into a fetus.

   The approach, which is called germ line therapy, is so controversial that
most scientists politely avoid its discussion. The Vatican and leading
representatives of Islamic and Jewish religious groups have stated unequivocal
objection to all forms of germ line therapy. And some prominent scientists, such
as France's Dr. Jacques Testart of the Institut Nationale de la Sante et de la
Recherche Medicale in Clarmart, say that tolerating any form of PID would be
tantamount to accepting widespread eugenics. For example, if current evidence
for the existence of a gene for homosexuality bears fruit, how many would-be
parents would order destruction or alteration of all pre-embryos that carried
the trait?

   Frances Collins, head of the genome project, Nobel laureate James Watson and
other leaders of the genome effort have voiced concern or opposition to germ
line therapy and PID. Hood, however, calls it "preventive medicine" and argues
that it might well be morally acceptable within the proper legal and regulatory
frameworks.

   Another socially volatile approach to gene therapy involves modification of
animal tissue for use in human beings. By altering pig DNA, it might be possible
to engineer swine livers or hearts that could be transplanted into people
without producing immune system rejection complications. People who suffer
genetic hormone disorders might benefit from surgically implanted, genetically
engineered animal pituitary, adrenal or ovarian tissues.

   The Vatican and a host of social critics have argued that such modification
and use of animal tissue is "unnatural," even immoral. Animal rights activists,
of course, oppose all such activities on principle.

   Humanist Roger Straughan, of the University of Reading in England, argues,
however, that given the existence of evolution and change in the animal world it
is absurd to confine biomedicine to "species boundaries" and "species
integrity."

   The boundaries have already been crossed, prompting creation of transgenic
animals. Most such genetically engineered animals are mice or rats that had
human genes of various kinds inserted into their genomes and counterpart rodent
genes removed. For example, AIDS research has benefited greatly from creation of
the SCID-hu mouse, an animal whose own rodent immune system has been genetically
replaced with the human system. And cells from transgenic animals have been
experimentally injected into people. To date, however, no one has received an
organ transplant from a genetically modified animal.

   While the bloom is temporarily off the gene therapy rose, even the
technology's harshest cynics believe the intellectual stumbling blocks that
currently mire the field will be overcome within 20 to 30 years. Most
encouraging, they say, is industry's firm commitment.

   "We stand at a crossroad, at which we can decide how much we want to control
our future as a species," Chiron CEO Dr. Edward Penhoet wrote in a recent
statement from the Bay Area biotechnology firm. "As an optimist about human
nature, I say we should take control of our destiny."


   *

   No matter how great the corporate and NIH commitments to gene therapy,
optimists say we are two decades away from viable modes of gene replacement or
alteration, and the less sanguine put the timetable at 50 years.

   That means a terrible gap will soon exist. It is already opening as
disease-associated genes are rapidly discovered, and will be fully agape within
five to seven years, when the human genome will be entirely sequenced. Suddenly
humanity will know more about itself than ever before but will be temporarily
helpless to alter its fate. Individually we will all have the
opportunity--perhaps even mandate--to be tested for a range of genetic traits
and disorders but our physicians will have little, short of exercise and dietary
recommendations, to offer.

   We will witness our fates, impotent to alter their courses.

   "Mostly what each of us for a generation or two of Americans will be finding
out will be bad news," says Dr. George Annas. "Do you really want to know your
genome?"

   As chair of the Health and Law Department of Boston University, Annas has
served on a variety of Human Genome Project ethics and advisory committees. Even
before the sequencing project was formally underway, Annas was one of the
ethicists most influential in convincing James Watson, then head of the human
genome drive, to direct about $ 3 million a year of the effort's monies toward
study of its legal, social and ethical impacts. ELSI, or Ethical, Legal and
Social Implications of Human Genome Research, was born along with the rest of
the project and has since spawned an enormous amount of hand-wringing and
debate. It is an unprecedented entity in the annals of Science: It funds, in the
main, humanists and attorneys to analyze the potential impact of a scientific
revolution before it occurs.

   By far the biggest immediate concern is how humanity will deal with the
coming tsunami of genetic information during the decades-long gap period in
which therapeutic options will be limited or nonexistent. The more ELSI
participants consider the matter the larger the list of concerns grows. And
every day more scientists and physicians add their voices to the chorus of
worry.

   "I'm basically in favor of the genome project, but I think it needs strict
legal constrictions," Annas says. "I buy the argument that we may learn
something that will help people, find cures for diseases and so on. And that's
the only upside. There's enough serious scientific background here to say there
are some possibilities."

   But in the absence of cures and correctives, Annas predicts, "Mostly we're
going to look at these genes and see how we're different from one another,
rather than say we're all in one family."

   Your genes give you Alzheimer's, but--thank God--mine don't. I have genes for
aggression. Your genes make you passive. Those people (fill in the ethnic blank)
all have genes that make them (fill in the stereotyped trait). In a world
already stratified and rife with ethnic and gender tensions, Annas fears that
genetic information will simply add to the name-calling noise.

   New York University sociologist Dorothy Nelkin, who has also been a major
player in ELSI, asks the same basic question: "Why do we want to know this kind
of information? The DNA mystique--why are we so willing to accept this?"

   From Nelkin's perspective few, if any, of the most fundamental questions
about human behavior will ever be answerable based on genes alone. Yet interest
in predictive behavior--particularly for antisocial and violent traits--is
strong. Though psychiatrists today generally say that key behaviors result from
a mix of genetic and environmental factors, few adhere to the neo-Freudian view
that the nature of the family environment is absolutely paramount in determining
a child's behavior as an adult. In the early 20th century, if a father and son
both exhibited violent tempers and heavy bouts of alcoholism, observers would
shrug and say, "Like father, like son." It was the street-smart way of
indicating that the son was brought up to behave like his rotten father. As the
21st century approaches, however, psychiatrists are far more likely to assume
that the father and son exhibit the same antisocial behavior because they share
an identical constellation of pertinent behavioral genes.

   The search is on, with considerable apparent success, for genes that dictate
teenage malaise, seasonal depressions, schizophrenia, borderline personality
disorder, aggressiveness, passivity, bipolar disorder, depression, mania,
alcoholism and addictive personality disorder, altruism, dominance and a host of
other factors that ultimately determine not only how each of us behaves on an
individual level, but how we interact and coexist as a society.

   "We'll never be able to predict personality or behavior. The risks and
factors involved are just too complex," Nelkin argues. But she suspects that
genes linked to key behaviors will be targets for individual testing.

   "It's associated with the larger societal issue of blaming the individual,"
Nelkin insists. "Rather than blaming the collective response or government or
the state. If you're sick, it's your fault. So you now see Gallo wine sponsoring
research on the genetics of alcoholism, for example."

   Individually genetic information holds plenty of pitfalls, critics say, but
they underscore that the issue goes well beyond the individual. If you carry the
BRCA.1 gene thought to be associated with breast cancer or the Xq28 gene that
seems to be linked to homosexuality, in all likelihood the genes are also
present in one or more of your siblings, parents, children and cousins. Your
genome data isn't just yours.

   For doctors and counselors this creates an enormous confusion, and possible
conflicts with the Hippocratic Oath.

   "Who is the patient?" Nelkin asks. "Who should be informed? If they find a
deleterious gene in their patients, do they doctors have a duty to inform family
members? Just who, in fact, is the patient?"

   The doctor is in a no-win situation, Annas says. Consider the example of a
25-year-old woman who carries a combination of genes that give her 90% odds of
developing malignant breast cancer before she reaches menopause. In all
likelihood, she would have asked to be tested because several of her female
relatives had succumbed to the disease. It would seem prudent for the physician
to contact the woman's sisters and mother immediately, suggesting that they also
undergo testing. But by doing so the doctor violates the patient's rights to
confidentiality and privacy.


   *

   Few issues are as thorny for ELSI participants as privacy and personal
control over one's genetic information.

   "Who has the right to decode your genome?" Annas asks. "What can they do with
it?"

   Putting aside genome data, hospitals and health insurance companies already
possess an enormous amount of medical information on everyone reading this
article. Increasingly your medical information is finding its way onto the
all-too-leak-prone Internet in the form of interstate transferal of clinical and
experimental files. Addressing hearings of the Congressional Subcommittee on
Government Information in 1991, James Watson concluded, "the idea that there
will be a huge databank of genetic information on millions of people is
repulsive."

   Annas believes that the confluence of genetics and psychiatry has led to a
point wherein, "the stage is set for an explosion of DNA databanks for criminal
law purposes."

   He calls an individual's genome a "future diary," and insists it is deserving
of as much legal and moral protection as the private entries a troubled teen
makes in a notebook.

   Noted molecular biologist Maxine Singer, president of the Carnegie Institute
in Washington, D.C., warns that "we're dealing with something that affects every
life on the planet. We are all affected by DNA molecules." Thus we all stand to
lose a great deal if our private DNA becomes the subject of public discussion.

   Last year, ELSI came up with the Genetic Privacy Act, which Annas and other
advocates hope will gain support in Congress. The act prohibits analysis of DNA
samples without the written approval of the individual from whom the DNA was
extracted. It also states who shall have a right to see or collect that data,
gives an individual the right to order destruction of all samples of that
person's genetic database or DNA samples and grants individuals permission to
deny use of their genes for research purposes.

   Congress is currently debating a bill, called the Medical Records
Confidentiality Act, that seeks to limit the numbers of individuals who can have
access to medical information. Testimony before the Senate Labor and Human
Resources Committee last November revealed thousands of abuses of individual
privacy, violations of doctor/patient confidentiality and medical databases. The
act seeks to limit and control the numbers of databases that can obtain and
store personal medical records. Annas and other critics charge that the act will
result in even larger, more efficient medical databases run by private
companies.

   Among the largest existing databases are those used by huge health
maintenance organizations (HMOs) and companies that sell their information to
insurance companies. Some genetic information is already in those commercial
databases, and individuals who carry traits for ailments such as sickle cell
anemia and Huntington's disease have suffered insurance, job and health-care
discrimination as an outcome of electronic distribution of their test results.

   In a special 1993 report, an ELSI task force on health insurance concluded:
"One of the ironies in the current health care coverage crisis is that
developing more accurate biomedical information could make things worse rather
than better . . . the likelihood of needing health care and the ability to
obtain coverage for that care has the unfortunate result that those most in need
may have the greatest difficulty finding affordable health care coverage. New
advances in human genetics are transforming medicine by making available
increasing amounts of such information about risk."

   The ELSI report concluded that strong federal legal instruments were crucial
to preventing "the unwelcome possibility of genetic discrimination." Twelve
states, including California, have enacted laws that aim at limiting insurance
company access to genetic information, according to Karen Rothenberg, director
of the Law and Health Program of the University of Maryland School of Law in
Baltimore. But the state laws vary dramatically and none can touch the
borderless world of cyberspace, wherein every entry instantaneously crosses
state lines to become nationally--even internationally--accessible.


   *

   As 1995 came to a close, two genetic privacy acts were introduced in
Congress. One, sponsored by Oregon Republican Sen. Mark Hatfield, would
eliminate all but forensic use of genetic information without written consent.
Democratic Rep. Louise Slaughter of New York has introduced another bill on the
House side that would specifically prohibit insurance companies from having
access to or using personal genetic information. Given Congress' crowded
schedule, neither bill is expected to reach the floor for debate until this fall
or early next year unless championed by Speaker Newt Gingrich. To date, Gingrich
has made no public comments on genetic privacy issues.

   Dr. Thomas Murray of Case Western Reserve Medical School in Cleveland chaired
the ELSI investigation on health insurance. He says that individuals, often at
the encouragement of their physicians or genetic counselors, are already
submitting to gene tests under false names in order to protect themselves from
insurance discrimination. Providers who deal with breast cancer, Huntington's
and other disorders for which gene tests are now available are encouraging their
patients to pay for testing in cash in order to avoid a paper trail that might
turn up in a computer database.

   "Lest anybody think this is my imagination, I should say that people are
literally knocking on my door almost every day with such stories," Murray said
in a speech last year to the American Association for the Advancement of
Science. In the absence of universal health-care coverage, he predicted, the
insurance industry notion of "actuarial fairness" will virtually compel use of
genetic information.

   "Insurers don't want to write insurance on a house that's already burning,"
Murray explained. "Actuarial fairness says that people ought to pay into the
system according to what they expect to receive. To not do so would be unfair to
those whose houses aren't on fire."

   In the medical context it is fraudulent to gain low-cost private health
insurance by lying about a preexisting condition, such as heart disease or
cancer. Today, says health insurance industry spokesman Harvie Raymond, no
company is requiring genetic tests of its applicants or clients.

   "But some are requesting information on those tests that have been
performed," Raymond, of the Health Insurance Association of America, said. "They
are universally concerned about being able to have results of genetic tests
available, just as would be the case with any other medical information . . .
The insurance industry would say that if that kind of information is taken off
the table . . . a fair and equitable assessment of risk will not be able to be
made, and fair pricing cannot be made."

   More than half of all insured Americans are covered through their employers,
so individual health risks are not raised directly by insurance providers. But
increasingly employers are screening potential employees for health tendencies
that might make their care costly in the future. Annas and Nelkin think that,
without legal prohibition, genetic screening could one day be employment-based.

   Raymond says that in the absence of a national health-care system there is no
easy way to satisfy the needs of both societal justice and actuarial fairness.

   "We don't really, as a nation, have a solution," he says.

   The thorny issues of discrimination and the structure of American health care
are the only issues that give Human Genome Project cheerleader Lee Hood pause.
As humanity teeters on the brink of a dramatic biomedical revolution, he says,
the entire effort hinges on the mundane realities of how people get health care,
who pays for it and who subsidizes innovative medicine.

   "Who's going to pay for the next step, taking all this genetic information
and translating it into gene therapy or some other kind of medical benefit?"
Hood asks. "It's a never-never land right now. We have great teaching hospitals
shaking their heads and saying, 'Where are we supposed to go?' "

   Revolutions are never easy. By the time Americans ring in the 21st century,
most, if not all, of our essential DNA will have been sequenced. And if we
haven't taken action before, we will then be collectively and individually
compelled to confront the question of just what we want to do with our newfound
knowledge.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC-DRAWING: COVER figure incorporates computer-generated DNA
sequence of a human gene, Terry Allen.  PHOTO: (The Dots Are Almost
Connected....Then What?) PHOTO: Dr. Leroy Hood's invention deciphers genetic
codes.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Robert Lyons

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996


                             2914 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                              March 3, 1996 Sunday
                                 UNION EDITION

SECTION: UNION; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Sue Gordon - making strides against birth defects

BYLINE: HERB DITZEL 3D

BODY:

   Birthplace: Newark; now lives in Union Township.

   Occupation: Assistant director of college relations for Kean College in Union
since 1990. Has been employed by the college for 10 years.

   Accomplishments: Recipient of the FDR Award from the March of Dimes North
Jersey Chapter. She was one of 12 people in the chapter's 10 counties to receive
the volunteer-of-the-year award named after President Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
who established the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in 1938 (which
became the March of Dimes). The honor recognizes excellence, commitment and
dedication to the chapter in such areas as leadership, volunteer development and
fluid-raising. She has been a volunteer with the organization since 1990 and was
recently named chairwoman of the March of Dimes 1996 Union County WalkAmerica,
to be held April 28. She is captain of the Kean College team of students, staff
and faculty that has raised about $20,000 for programs to prevent birth defects.
She expects the team to bring in $6,000 this year.

   Why she does it: "My job is a good-will ambassador. The message is to ensure
the health of 'America's children. We're giving babies a better chance to be
born healthy. The least we can do is give every child a head start in life."

    Commentary: "This is an organization whose mission is simple, yet so very
important. A lot of inroads have been made over the past 20 years in preventing
birth defects, including prenatal programs, pioneering research into gene
therapy and screenings for women and children. I'm amazed by the enthusiasm of
people who are asked to volunteer - they really embrace it. During WalkAmerica,
I get great pleasure when I think about all of those feet wa]king simultaneously
around the country to raise money and awareness for a good cause. The walks are
intergeneratior4 and that is important. Chances are the children who are
participating now will be walking 20 years from now."

   Previous jobs: Media analyst for the New Jersey Coalition for Fair
Broadcasting, and an adjunct Instructor of English at 'Essex County College.

   Education: Bachelor's degree in English from Rutgers University, Newark.

   Personal: Single.

   Favorite flicks: Has many favorites, but she especially likes "Sense and
Sensibility."

   Hobbies: Travel, theater.

   Favorite food: Italian.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2915 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              The Sun (Baltimore)

                      March 3, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: The tycoon trail starts at NIH; Alumni going places: Many scientists
and managers have left NIH to start, help start or work for a biotechnology
company in Maryland.

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   You'll find Dr. Randall L. Kincaid, a former National Institutes of Health
research chief, in a converted Rockville warehouse toiling away on a scientific
frontier called protein expression.

   The erudite and affable Dr. Kincaid gave up his well-equipped high-tech
laboratory at the federal government's National Institutes of Health in Bethesda
-- not to mention the prestige and salary of working at the sprawling life
sciences hub -- for these stripped-down quarters in an industrial park.

   Why? He wanted to move into private industry and launch his own biotechnology
company, Veritas Inc.

   Today, the company's employee roster has all of two people -- Dr. Kincaid and
another scientist he just hired. And Veritas' lab equipment is of the
hand-me-down variety. But the scientist and the entrepreneur in Dr. Kincaid are
ever hopeful.

   He's not the first, nor likely the last, NIH scientist to start a
biotechnology company in Maryland. And many, it turns out, have become success
stories.

   In fact, some experts say that without NIH's presence in Maryland, the
industry, which is trying to unlock nature's secrets to treat and cure diseases,
improve crop yields and control environmental contamination, might be a shadow
of what it is today in the Free State.

   "NIH is the engine that's driving biotechnology in Maryland -- indeed in the
country," said Dr. Michael M. Gottesman, the deputy director for research at the
NIH campus, who has studied NIH's effect on Maryland's biotechnology industry.

   By launching Veritas, Dr. Kincaid joined a list of prestigious NIH scientists
and high-level managers who have left the world-class institution to either
start their own firm or join forces with others to launch a biotechnology
company in Maryland.

   And there are even more scientists and managers -- no one's sure how many
exactly -- who have been hired from NIH by Maryland biotechnology companies.

   Drs. Scott Koenig and Robert Hohman, for example.

   Dr. Koenig was lured to Rockville-based MedImmune Inc. and is now director of
research at the vaccine and drug developer.

   Dr. Hohman, a former NIH scientist, is vice president for research and
development at Oncor Inc., a Gaithersburg-based company developing genetic
tests.

   The experience of working at NIH before launching a biotechnology company can
be pivotal, say some who have done so.

   "What you learn working at NIH, in the larger sense, is the absolute breadth
of possibilities available in the world of biotechnology," said Dr. Kincaid,
whose protein expression work could one day draw clients from the
bio-pharmaceuticals and biotechnology industries working on gene therapy.

   The field of protein expression involves seeding bacteria with DNA so it will
produce, or "express," in large amounts the protein for which the DNA is coded.
The field is considered promising because it may offer a way to mass produce
therapeutic genes.

   "If I had worked at an institution that had a narrower view of what's
possible, I doubt I would have thought that starting my own company and seeing
it become a success was possible," said Dr. Kincaid.

   As a result of the ripple effect on Maryland's economy from scientists such
as Dr. Kincaid spinning out of NIH, some biotechnology experts believe that the
institution has emerged as the single most important "fuel" driving Maryland's
growing biotechnology industry, which generates an estimated 13,000 jobs in the
state.

   By the end of the decade, as more products are approved for marketing, that
could rise to 20,000, predict some experts, including Dr. Gottesman.

   That would make the industry a larger employer than NIH, the world's largest
center for life-science research with 16,000 employees.

   No one is certain just how many people have left NIH to start or help launch
one of the 176 biotechnology companies in the state, said Dr. Gottesman. But
he's documented at least 10 companies.

   Marsha Schachtel, director of technology development for the state, said that
historically the vehicle that has helped scientists with the entrepreneurial
urge leave NIH and start a new venture is what's known as the CRADA --
cooperative research and development agreement. Under that deal, NIH pays a
scientists to conduct research projects NIH needs completed.

   "If you look at the largest biotech companies in Maryland, most are NIH CRADA
babies," said Ms. Schachtel.

   These ventures include what many consider the first biotechnology company in
Maryland, Bethesda Research Laboratories (BRL), which was founded by NIH
scientists in the late 1970s thanks to a research agreement with NIH. The
company evolved to become Life Technologies Inc., a $ 270 million publicly held
concern now based in Gaithersburg.

   One of the top executives of BRL, M. James Barrett, a former NIH director,
helped launch another company, Gaithersburg-based Genetic Therapy Inc. in 1986.
Dr. Barrett is now Genetic Therapy's CEO and is often introduced as "the father
of biotechnology in Maryland."

   His company, which is among a small group of pioneers in the United States
trying to develop genetic therapies for diseases such as cystic fibrosis, AIDS
and cancer, now employs more than 150. Its field of research is so promising
that Swiss pharmaceutical giant Sandoz AG bought the company last year for
nearly $ 300 million.

   Human Genome Sciences Inc. of Rockville is another Maryland-based company
founded as a result of NIH brain power and now exploring how gene manipulation
might be used to treat diseases. It has struck several research alliances with
major food and drug developers and has seen its stock price more than triple
since last March.

   Human Genome was launched in Maryland in 1992 to develop for
commercialization the discoveries of Dr. Craig Venter, a former NIH scientist
who left the institution to start the Institute for Genomic Research, a
Gaithersburg-based nonprofit corporation. It's now funded by Human Genome.

   Perhaps the most notable NIH researcher to leave the institution to start a
new venture in Maryland to start a new venture in Maryland is Dr. Robert C.
Gallo, the former director of the tumor cell biology laboratory at NIH's
National Cancer Institute in Bethesda.

   Dr. Gallo, who has a worldwide reputation for his work on AIDS, is setting up
a new laboratory at the University of Maryland's newly renovated biomedical
center in Baltimore, where he will attempt to develop disease treatments that
can be commercialized.

   William Haseltine, Human Genome's founder and chief executive officer, said
that aside from having access to top NIH scientists such as Drs. Gallo and
Venter, biotechnology companies can easily find qualified lab technicians and
other workers in the region to hire.

   A key reason: the rich pool of people working in the life sciences at NIH.

   "NIH is the major attraction for a biotechnology company to locate in
Maryland," said Dr. Haseltine.

   A majority of those companies are located within 30 minutes of NIH, most of
them concentrated in Montgomery County's high-tech corridor that runs from
Bethesda to Gaithersburg along Interstate 270.

   Also, noted Dr. Haseltine, his company has found that its proximity to the
NIH's National Library of Medicine and its huge pool of experts is a powerful
magnet for landing top scientific talent from across the country.

   Dr. Gottesman and other experts venture to say that NIH's influence on the
state's biotechnology industry is so powerful that if the federal government
were to move NIH out of Maryland, the industry itself might follow.

   In other states with high concentrations of biotechnology companies, such as
Massachusetts and California, the industry is tied more to high profile
universities such as Harvard and Stanford, rather than to a government
institution.

   To get an idea of just what effect NIH has on the state economy, economists
studied the issue last year, though the report did not look at companies started
with NIH brainpower. Still, the bottom line: NIH's effect on Maryland is huge.

   The 1995 study by the state Department of Business and Economic Development
found that the institution, which has an annual budget of more than $ 11
billion, pumps at least $ 1.7 billion, or about 17 percent of its total budget,
into the Maryland economy.

   That $ 1.7 billion -- 30 times more than what the commercial fishing industry
generates in the state -- includes research grants, equipment purchases,
construction activities, taxes, and employee salaries.

   (Nationwide, the study found that NIH contributes about $ 45 billion to the
U.S economy, or almost as much as the national budget of Austria.)

   The bulk of NIH's spending in Maryland is clearly for research and
administrative needs at NIH.

   But NIH also sent about $ 550 million to biotechnology researchers at area
universities and private companies. Dr. Gottesman estimated that the 1996 figure
is probably about $ 600 million, or about what it costs the state to build 50
elementary schools.

   Researchers at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Maryland, which
each have strong biotechnology programs and which license out new discoveries
for commercialization, are the major recipients of the outside research
contracts that NIH struck in Maryland.

   In 1994, the year for which the most recent figures are available, those
contracts totaled more than $ 317 million.

   But three biotechnology companies -- Westat Inc., ROW Sciences and Advanced
Biosciences Laboratories -- together were paid nearly $ 100 million in 1994 for
NIH work.

   Dr. Kincaid, who spent more than a decade working at NIH, said he's now seen
-- from the inside and the outside -- the institution's powerful effect on the
industry.

   "NIH's total effect on the biotechnology industry is probably incalculable,"
he said.

   NIH offspring

   Maryland biotech companies started by former NIH scientists and directors,
with the number of U.S. employees (in parentheses) and the companies' their main
businesses.

   * Biotech Research Laboratories, Rockville. (50 employees) Cell and molecular
biology services

   * Cellco, Germantown. (30) Cell culturing products/services

   * Genetic Therapy, Gaithersburg. (150) Gene therapies for diseases

   * GenVec, Rockville.(20) Gene therapies for diseases

   * The Institute for Genomic Research, Rockville. (85) Genetic mapping
research

   * Kemp Biotechnologies, Frederick. (5) Cell culture products/services

   * Life Technologies, Rockville & Frederick. (900) Biotechnology research
supplies

   * Lofstrand Labs, Gaithersburg. (25) DNA, RNA and protein labeling services

   * Peptide Technologies, Gaithersburg. (10) Synthesized and purified peptides
for research

   * ROW Sciences, Rockville. (550) Contract research/computer analyses

   * Veritas, Rockville. (2) Protein expression and enzyme services

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO 1, BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR: SUN STAFF, Biotech entrepreneur:
After leaving a prestigious research position at the National Institutes of
Health, Randall L. Kincaid started his own biotechnology company, Veritas Inc.
Working for NIH (top photo) has been pivital to many careers.; COLOR PHOTO 2,
BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR: SUN STAFF, SAME AS COLOR PHOTO 1; PHOTO 1, BARBARA
HADDOCK TAYLOR: SUN STAFF, The Veritas team: Dr. Karl Kovacs (left) works with
Dr. Randall L. Kincaid in the Veritas lab.; PHOTO 2, BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR: SUN
STAFF, In the hands of the founder: Dr. Kincaid holds a bacterial fraction that
has been worked on at Veritas Inc.; PHOTO 3, BARBARA HADDOCK TAYLOR: SUN STAFF,
William Haseltine, founder of Human Genome, says NIH "is the major attraction
for a biotechnology company to locate in Maryland."; PHOTO 4, BARBARA HADDOCK
TAYLOR: SUN STAFF, Michael M. Gottesman, deputy research director at NIH, calls
NIH "the engine that's driving biotechnology in Maryland."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1996


                             2916 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                      March 3, 1996, Sunday, METRO EDITION

SECTION: NATION/WORLD, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Therapy takes aim at cancer;
Injections of a gene lets cells make a protein that fights various forms of the
disease.

SOURCE: An Associated Press Report

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:


   A gene that makes women susceptible to breast and ovarian cancers when it is
defective may be the starting point for a new cancer therapy.

   A single dose of a normal version of the gene wiped out human breast cancer
tumors in two out of five mice and extended the lives of others with the
disease, researchers found. Scientists don't know if the mice were actually
cured or retained microscopic traces of cancer.

   "I think it's a major step forward," said Dawn Willis, director of research
communication at the American Cancer Society.

   The experimental treatment involved injections of the gene BRCA1. When
defective it causes an inherited susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancers.

   The research gives direct evidence that the normal BRCA1 lets cells make a
protein that suppresses breast cancer. Researchers also found the gene
suppresses ovarian cancer in laboratory experiments and uncovered evidence that
cells secrete this protein.

   If it is secreted, scientists might be able to develop drugs that mimic the
protein's suppressing ability and use them to treat breast and ovarian cancers,
said researcher Jeffrey Holt.

   The work is presented in the March issue of the journal Nature Genetics by
Holt, Roy Jensen and others at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in
Nashville, Tenn.; Mary-Claire King of the University of Washington in Seattle,
and others.

   King said a BRCA1-based therapy wouldn't be expected to replace surgery, but
would supplement it.

   Barbara Weber, director of the breast cancer program at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School, said the results make her cautiously optimistic
about prospects for developing a BRCA1-based treatment, either as a gene therapy
or a drug.

   But she stressed more work must be done before either approach could be
tested in people.

   In the laboratory, researchers found breast and ovarian cancer cells
implanted with a normal BRCA1 gene did not grow into colonies. But BRCA1 did not
suppress colon and lung cancer cells.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1996


                             2917 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 The Buffalo News
                            Buffalo News (New York)

                      March 1, 1996, Friday, CITY EDITION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: STUDY FINDS HEALTHY CELLS MAY HEAL DISEASED LIVER

BYLINE: Associated Press

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:


   A small number of healthy cells can multiply enough to take over a diseased
liver, a finding that may open the door to gene therapy for liver diseases such
as hepatitis, a study in mice found.

   A major barrier to gene therapy of the liver has been scientists' inability
to deliver corrective genes that work long term in more than just a small
percentage of liver cells.

   Researchers studied mice born with a lethal genetic defect in all of the 30
million or so cells that made up their livers. They found that transplants of as
few as 1,000 healthy cells replaced more than 85 percent of the organ's cells
within two months, saving most animals' lives.

   The healthy cells were able to take over the liver because they had the gene
the other cells lacked. That enabled them to survive while the other cells died
off.

   Scientists may be able to use such an approach against liver diseases in
humans, said researcher Dr. Markus Grompe.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996


                             2918 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

                March 1, 1996, FRIDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Gene Therapy Cures Human Breast Tumors in Mice

BYLINE: BY MALCOLM RITTER

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:

   Scientists used a single dose of a gene to wipe out human breast cancer
tumors in some mice and extend the lives of others with the disease.

   "I think it's a major step forward" toward a new treatment for breast cancer,
said Dawn Willis, director of research communication at the American Cancer
Society.

   The experimental treatment -- involving injections of a normal version of the
gene BRCA1 -- eliminated tumors in two of the five mice tested. But scientists
don't know whether the mice were cured or still had undetectable traces of
cancer.

   A defective BRCA1 is known to cause an inherited susceptibility to breast and
ovarian cancers. The new work gives direct evidence that the normal BRCA1 lets
cells make a protein that suppresses breast and ovarian cancer.

   Scientists also found evidence that cells secrete this protein. If that is so

 -- and other research suggests otherwise -- scientists might be able to develop
drugs to treat breast and ovarian cancer, said researcher Dr. Jeffrey Holt.

   He presented the study in the March issue of the journal Nature Genetics with
Dr. Roy Jensen and others at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in
Nashville, Tenn., Mary-Claire King of theUniversity of Washington in Seattle,
and others.

   King said a BRCA1-based treatment probably wouldn't replace surgery, but
would supplement it.

   Dr. Barbara Weber, director of the breast cancer program at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School, said the results make her "cautiously optimistic"
about prospects for developing a BRCA1-based drug or gene-implantation technique
that can fight cancer.

   But she stressed that much more work must be done before either approach
could be tested in people.

GRAPHIC:  ASSOCIATED PRESS

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1996


                             2919 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                      March 1, 1996, Friday, Home Edition

SECTION: Part A; Page 1; Metro Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY FOR BREAST CANCER SHOWS POTENTIAL

BYLINE: KENNETH CHANG, TIMES STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Injecting the recently discovered breast cancer gene into breast tumors
eliminates the malignant cells--at least in mice carrying human cancer cells,
scientists reported Thursday.

   Reflecting how quickly research in this field has accelerated in the past
year, human testing of this anti-cancer therapy could begin later this year,
researchers said.

   "We now have something that we can really home in on to develop new forms of
therapy," said Roy Jensen, a professor of pathology and cell biology at
Vanderbilt University and one of the authors of two related articles that appear
in today's issue of Nature Genetics.

   Dr. Daniel F. Hayes, medical director of the breast evaluation center at
Boston's Dana Farber Cancer Institute, described his reaction to the news as a
"cautious gee-whiz."

   "These are very exciting first papers, but we have to accept all these things
with temperance," Hayes said. "These are some of our first steps on our way to
running."

   The researchers, from the University of Washington and Vanderbilt University
in Tennessee, also say they have picked out the protein that the gene, called
BRCA1, produces to perform its curative magic. That result conflicts with
findings in November from scientists at the University of Texas at San Antonio.
The molecule the Texas team claims to be the BRCA1 protein is slightly heavier
and acts completely different from what is described today.

   Nonetheless, both sets of findings hint that understanding its role in the
cell could lead to new treatments of these cancers.

   In one of the experiments, the Vanderbilt and Washington researchers injected
human breast cancer cells into the abdomens of 10 mice. Within a couple of
weeks, the tumors grew large enough to be felt under the animal's skins. Through
gene therapy, researchers then introduced the BRCA1 gene into the cancer cells,
with half of the mice getting a normal working gene, and half getting a
defective version.

   All of the mice that received the mutant BRCA1 gene died within two weeks.
Those that received the pristine gene lived at least two weeks and up to 41
days.

   Autopsies of the second group showed that the BRCA1 injection sharply
diminished the size of the tumors, and in two cases, eliminated all traces. It
was not clear why the mice died despite fighting off the cancer, but researchers
said the cancer had probably already weakened the mice's systems beyond
recovery.

   University of Washington geneticist Mary-Claire King, another of the
articles' authors and whose pursuit of a breast cancer cure dates back two
decades, predicted that researchers will be able to devise an effective
treatment against the disease within 20 years.

   "I'm getting more optimistic as time goes on," King said.

   Pending approval by the National Institutes of Health and the federal Food
and Drug Administration, the gene therapy technique could be tested in 10 to 20
women with ovarian cancer in six months to one year, Jensen said. Ovarian cancer
is generally easier to treat because it spreads through the body much more
slowly than breast cancer, Jensen said.

   What is particularly promising is that the gene acts quite specifically
against breast and ovarian cancers. "You could make a scoop-shovel full of it
and it doesn't have any effect on other types of cancer at all," Jensen said.

   Because of this specificity, Jensen and the other researchers envision it as
a potential replacement for chemotherapy without the side effects, such as
destruction of healthy cells and weakening the immune system.

   Another possibility is to create a drug to mimic the effects of the BRCA1
protein. Synthetic drugs are often easier to produce and are more stable than
the naturally occurring protein.

   Scientists knew from BRCA's genetic data that it produced a large protein,
three or four times the typical size. The Washington and Vanderbilt researchers
built antibodies that hooked into the protein. Those antibodies, which included
fluorescent molecules, lit up like bicycle reflectors when light was shined on
them and enabled the scientists to pinpoint the proteins' location.

   What the researchers found was that in a normal working breast cell, the
BRCA1 protein is secreted out of the cell. They hypothesize that it then
attaches to the outside of the cell and tells it to stop growing.

   "That's a surprise," said Nancy Davidson, director of the breast cancer
program at the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center in Baltimore.

   All tumor-suppressing proteins known up to now operate within the central
nucleus of cells, not outside. "What is not a surprise is BRCA1 does retard
growth and inhibit tumors," Davidson said. "That confirms what we suspected."

   The Texas group had painted a more conventional picture of the
protein--residing exclusively in the cell nucleus, except in late-stage cancers.
On Thursday, Wen-Hwa Lee, head of the Texas research group, said, "We stand by
our data."

   It is likely that one of the groups has sunk its antibody hooks into wrong
protein, though it is possible that the protein acts differently in different
situations. The difference in weight could be accounted for by an enzyme
shearing off a small chunk.

   "It won't surprise me if we don't have some bouncing around of hypotheses and
ideas and data without clear-cut confirmation of what this protein does for a
while," said Hayes of the Dana Farber Institute.

   According to the American Cancer Society, breast cancer each year strikes an
estimated 182,000 women in the United States, and 46,000 die. About 26,000 U.S.
women develop ovarian cancer annually, and 14,500 die annually.

   Genetic errors in BRCA1 are thought to cause half of the inherited cases of
breast and ovarian cancer, or about 2.5% of all cases. But because the new
therapy appears to work against the non-inherited type of breast cancer as well,
the researchers suspect that the gene may figure in a much greater percentage of
cases.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996


                             2920 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                              March 1, 1996 Friday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: LOCAL STORIES; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: ON-OFF SWITCH FOUND FOR GENES

BODY:

   Friday, March 1, 1996 ON-OFF SWITCH FOUND FOR GENES

   Scientists in Portland and Philadelphia have determined the structure of a
protein that turns genes on and off.

   Determining the three-dimensional structure of the molecular switch sheds
light on the mechanisms involved in how genes operate, said Richard Brennan,
associate professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at Oregon Health
Sciences University.

   Brennan is a co-author of an article about the research in the Friday issue
of the journal Science.

   The research centered on a molecule called the lactose repressor.

   Brennan said when scientists first began studying this molecule in the
bacteria E. coli, they found that it played a critical role in regulating  three
genes that encode enzymes for digesting the sugar lactose.

   Determining the crystal structure of the molecule provides scientists with  a
view of how a molecular switch can change its shape to turn on genes and  make
them active in a cell, Brennan said. Whether scientists want to silence  genes
that cause tumors, or activate genes that fight infection, they are  aided by
knowing the elaborate architecture of molecules that regulate genes,  he said.

   Other scientists involved in the research work included Maria A.  Schumacher,
a postdoctoral fellow at OHSU, and Mitchell Lewis and his  colleagues from the
University of Pennsylvania.

   MEMO: Gene Therapy

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2921 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                              March 1, 1996 Friday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: Pg. A01

HEADLINE: GENE RESEARCH AT OHSU

GRAPHIC: PICTURE CAPTION, Friday, March 1, 1996 GENE RESEARCH AT OHSU
ILLUSTRATION: Color photo by ANGELA CARA PANCRAZIO/the Oregonian< Ken Overturf,
a molecular and medical genetics researcher at Oregon Health Sciences
University, examines a lab mouse that was cured of liver disease by gene
therapy. Status: Filed School - Oregon Health Sciences University

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2922 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                              March 1, 1996 Friday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: LOCAL STORIES; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: OHSU TEAM PIONEERS NEW GENE THERAPY

BYLINE: RICHARD L. HILL, of the Oregonian Staff <

BODY:

   Friday, March 1, 1996 OHSU TEAM PIONEERS NEW GENE THERAPY

   Summary: The development holds the promise of curing a hereditary  liver
disorder that can threaten the lives of infants and young children

   An Oregon research team has pioneered a gene therapy that may result in
treating a childhood liver disease and other often-fatal genetic disorders.

   The scientists at Oregon Health Sciences University have been able to cure
-- in genetically engineered mice they developed -- a childhood liver disorder
called hereditary tyrosinemia.

   Their work, detailed in Friday's issue of Nature Genetics, provides a  needed
boost to gene therapy, a new technology that hasn't lived up to initial
expectations. Gene therapy involves inserting genes with correct information
into cells that contain defective genes. More than 100 human experiments are
under way in efforts to correct a variety of illnesses, including AIDS and
cancer, but most have met with disappointing results.

   ``In a mouse model, we have shown that an inherited liver disease can be
successfully treated by delivering cells with a corrected gene,'' said Ken
Overturf, the study's lead author and an OHSU researcher in molecular and
medical genetics.

   Overturf said the technique can serve as a model for other types of gene
therapy to treat genetic disorders affecting metabolism.

   ``The report breathes new life into the prospects of liver-directed gene
therapy,'' James M. Wilson of the Institute for Human Gene Therapy at the
University of Pennsylvania said in an accompanying article in Nature Genetics.
``The story . . . provides a dramatic illustration of fundamental advances in
cell and molecular biology in overcoming insurmountable barriers to successful
gene therapies.''

   Arno G. Motulsky, a geneticist at the University of Washington who recently
was co-chairman of a national panel of 14 experts that reviewed gene therapy,
praised the OHSU work. ``I think a lot of basic work is necessary to find new
approaches,'' he said, ``and I think this is a very exciting new approach.
Hopefully, it can be used in humans, but a lot more work is necessary.''

   Hereditary tyrosinemia is a frequently fatal metabolic disease caused by a
deficiency in an enzyme -- fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase, or FAH -- and  results
in liver failure in infants.

   Infants with the rare disease suffer from vomiting, failure to grow and
liver failure in the first year of life. The disease sometimes is misdiagnosed
as hepatitis. The diseaseeventually progresses to liver cancer in half the
cases and cirrhosis of the liver.

   ``I think human trials using this therapy are around the corner,'' said Dr.
Markus Grompe, the report's senior author and assistant professor of molecular
genetics and pediatrics at OHSU. ``But we want to follow our mice for at least
another year to make sure the mice don't get cancer down the line after  all.''

   The article describes the technique in which cells containing the correct
gene for the missing enzyme are transplanted into the mice. The healthy cells
repopulate the liver.

   ``The cells that are introduced by gene therapy have a growth advantage  over
the cells that carry the faulty gene,'' Grompe said. ``What we've shown  is that
you only need to correct a small fraction of all the liver cells if  you have
this growth advantage situation.

   Inserting as few as 1,000 healthy cells into a diseased mouse replaced more
than 80 percent of the 30 million genetically defective cells that made up all
of its liver.

   ``The mouse has essentially been cured by this gene-therapy approach,'' he
said. ``And this is the first time that it's ever been done for any liver
disease animal model.''

   Tyrosinemia affects about 40 newborns in the United States each year and
about one infant every four years in Oregon.

   The only way to treat the disease now is with liver transplants, Grompe
said. If gene therapy works, it would eliminate the need for transplants.

   ``I'm optimistic that this technique would work in humans,'' Grompe said.
``These mice are much sicker with the disease than humans are, so I would  think
this treatment would work with humans better than mice.''

   Other co-authors of the Nature Genetics article included Muhsen Al-Dhalimy
of OSHU, Robert Tanguay of the University of Laval in Quebec, Mark Brantly of
the National Institutes of Health, and Milton Finegold of Texas Children's
Hospital in Houston.

   The first human gene-therapy trials began in 1990, but most have not been
successful in fully curing a disease.

   The review panel appointed by the National Institutes of Health that the
UW's Motulsky headed was critical of the promotion given to the emerging
technology. ``Clinical efficacy has not been definitively demonstrated at this
time in any gene therapy protocol,'' the panel's report stated.

   The OHSU work is the kind of research that the review panel wanted to see
more of, Motulsky said. ``We feel the whole concept of gene therapy is
extremely important, but that so far there's been too much hype accompanying
some of the research being done,'' he said.

   ILLUSTRATION: Color Photo by ANGELA CARA PANCRAZIO - of The Oregonian staff

   Graphic -- Text and illustration -- GENE THERAPY: HOW IT WORKS - 5 steps
noted

   Sidebar -- ON-OFF SWITCH FOUND FOR GENES

   MEMO: Gene Therapy

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2923 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 1996 The Oregonian
                              All Rights Reserved
                        The Oregonian (Portland, Oregon)

                              March 1, 1996 Friday
                                SUNRISE Edition

SECTION: GRAPHICS SCIENCE; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY: HOW IT WORKS

BODY:

   Friday, March 1, 1996 GENE THERAPY: HOW IT WORKS

   Defective genes cause disease by prompting cells to make the wrong  quantity
of protein needed by the body, or aberrant forms of the protein.

   In  gene therapy, corrective genes are delivered to damaged cells. This is
the  method OHSU scientists used in experiments with mice:

   1. Viruses are stripped of their disease-causing genes and given normal
human genes

   2. The retrovirus carrying corrective gene into the mouse's liver through
the portal vein.

   3. A low number of liver cells become corrected for the genetic defect.

   4. Corrected cells grow in grapelike clusters.

   5.  Corrected cells continue to grow until they fill nearly all the liver.

   Soure: Congressional Quarterly; Oregon Health Sciences University

   MEMO: Gene Therapy

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006


                             2924 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                       March 1, 1996 Friday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: GENE THERAPY PROMISING IN BREAST CANCER

BYLINE: By DAVID BROWN; WASHINGTON POST

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   Recent experiments with the "breast cancer gene" discovered 18 months ago
suggest that the normal version of the gene may theoretically be useful as a
treatment for the disease.

   The gene, named BRCA1, produces a protein that slows both the formation and
growth of breast tumors in laboratory animals. Equally important, the protein
appears to do its work outside, rather than inside, cancer cells - a fact that
greatly enhances its potential usefulness as a drug.

   Abnormal versions of BRCA1 originally were found in families containing large
numbers of women with breast cancer and, less frequently, ovarian cancer.
Although these women account for only 3 percent of the 184,000 new cases of
breast cancer diagnosed each year, researchers hoped that studying them would
shed light on the far more common "non-familial" form of the disease.

   Two papers published today in the journal Nature Genetics suggest this hope
is being borne out.

   Virtually all genes are inherited in pairs, one from the mother and one from
the father. Many women with "familial" breast cancer appear to inherit one
abnormal copy of BRCA1 and one normal one. Some women subsequently lose the
function of the normal BRCA1 gene in a breast cell. The cell is then left with
no functioning normal BRCA1 gene function at all. The risk of cancer in women
whose breasts contain such cells is very high.

   But as with many "disease genes," the normal purpose and function of BRCA1
remains unknown. The new experiments hint at that function.

   The researchers found a protein that appears to be BRCA1 attached to
membranes in breast cells. Using an electron microscope, they even photographed
a cell in the act of releasing several "labeled" molecules of the protein.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1996


                             2925 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                      MARCH 1, 1996, FRIDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Breast Cancer Research Advance
 Same gene, depending on mutation, can fight or cause tumors

BYLINE: David Perlman, Chronicle Science Editor

BODY:

    Two research teams investigating the flawed genes that cause hereditary
breast cancer have discovered that in their normal form the same genes can halt
or shrink the growth of human breast and ovarian cancers -- and even make some
tumors disappear.

   The experiments, which used human cancer cells transplanted into laboratory
mice, are a far cry from treating real tumors in real people. But they were
hailed by independent scientists yesterday as a major advance that raises
possibilities for new pathways to drugs and even gene therapy for many types of
breast and ovarian tumors.

   Leading one research team was Dr. Mary- Claire King, the internationally
famed geneticist at the University of Washington who first pinpointed the
location of the so-called breast cancer gene five years ago in her University of
California at Berkeley lab. The other group was headed by Dr. Jeffrey Holt, a
cell biologist at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn.

   Reports on their pathbreaking discoveries are being published today in the
March issue of the journal Nature Genetics.

   Hereditary forms of breast cancer account for less than 10 percent of the
185,000 breast cancer cases that are expected to strike American women this
year. But the new research also yields insights into the causes and possible
therapy for many of the far more common ''sporadic'' cases, the scientists said.

   In essence, what King and her colleagues have discovered is that in its
normal form, the human breast cancer gene, BRCA1, produces an obscure protein
known as a granin. Granin proteins are found primarily in the secretory cells of
organs like the breast and ovary, and until now their role has been poorly
understood.

   The BRCA1 protein's remarkable effectiveness in retarding the growth of
breast and ovarian tumor cells establishes for the first time that BRCA1 is a
true ''suppressor gene'' that causes cancer only when it mutates to yield a
faulty protein, the scientists concluded.

   For their experiments with some 200 mice, the researchers transplanted tumor
cells from human breast and ovarian cancers into specially bred strains of mice
whose lack of an immune system enabled the cancers to take root and continue
their uncontrolled growth.

   In one typical experiment, the scientists injected genetically engineered
viruses carrying normal BRCA1 genes into breast cancer tumors that were growing
wildly in the abdomens of five mice. The tumor cells came from patients who had
developed the common ''sporadic'' form of breast cancer that is not inherited.

   But when the mice died an average of 24 days later, autopsies showed that the
tumors had vanished in two of the five animals, while only small clumps of tumor
cells remained in the other three.

   By contrast, in five other mice inoculated with the mutated versions of the
BRCA1 gene that cause familial breast or ovarian cancers in humans, the tumors
kept growing and the mice died from their cancers an average of eight days
later, the experimenters reported.

   At the University of California at San Francisco, Dr. Joe W. Gray, a
molecular biologist who focuses on the genetics of cancer, called the reports
''an exciting development.'' The scientists appear to have discovered an
entirely new mechanism for regulating tumors that could yield ''interesting and
important'' new understandings of the biology of cancer, he said.

   At the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., Dr. Margaret Tucker, a
medical oncologist specializing in cancer genetics and epidemiology, said the
''very exciting hypothesis'' developed by the research teams could well lead to
new approaches for tumor control and therapy.

   King cautioned, however, that the team's research is only beginning and years
of work lie ahead. The experiments, she said, must be repeated on a larger
scale, the scientists must understand the biology of the BRCA1 protein far more
profoundly, and they must also conduct similar detailed experiments using the
gene called BRCA2, the second ''cancer suppressor'' gene that has been recently
discovered.

   It was only 15 months ago that gene hunters at the University of Utah, led by
geneticist Mark Skolnick, completed the intricate task of determining the entire
molecular sequence of the DNA that makes up the BRCA1. Skolnick has founded his
own biotechnology company called Myriad Genetics, and by coincidence he and his
team at the firm are reporting today in the same issue of Nature Genetics that
they have just determined the entire DNA sequence of the BRCA2 gene.


GRAPHIC: PHOTO,Mary-Claire King

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1996


                             2926 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                          March 1, 1996 Friday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: LIVER-THERAPY HOPES RAISED

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

DATELINE: NEW YORK

BODY:

   A small number of healthy cells can multiply enough to take over a diseased
liver, a finding that may open the door to gene therapy for liver diseases such
as hepatitis, a study in mice found.

   A major barrier to gene therapy of the liver has been scientists' inability
to deliver corrective genes that work long term in more than just a small
percentage of liver cells.

   Researchers studied mice born with a lethal genetic defect in all of the 30
million or so cells that made up their livers. They found that transplants of as
few as 1,000 healthy cells replaced more than 85 percent of the organ's cells
within two months, saving most animals' lives.

   The healthy cells were able to take over the liver because they had the gene
the other cells lacked. That enabled them to survive while the other cells died
off.

   Scientists may be able to use such an approach against liver diseases in
humans, said researcher Dr. Markus Grompe. In some diseases, scientists might
have to create the advantage that enables the healthy cells to take over the
diseased liver, he said.

   Grompe, an assistant professor of molecular and medical genetics and
pediatrics at the Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, reported the
work with other scientists in the March issue of the journal Nature Genetics.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1996


                             2927 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   February 26, 1996, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Baylor will use gift to set up gene therapy center

BYLINE: RUTH SoRELLE, Houston Chronicle Medical Writer; Staff

BODY:

   Baylor College of Medicine has announced that it will use a $ 5
million gift from the Shell Oil Company Foundation to
establish a center for gene therapy.

   The Shell Center for Gene Therapy will be the hub of activity
centered on correcting the genetic defects that lead to human
disease, said Dr.Ralph Feigin, the school's president.

   The $ 5 million gift is the largest in the Shell Foundation's
43-year history, said Philip J.Carroll, the company's
president and chief executive officer.

   He said the company decided to fund the center because of the
high quality of work going on at Baylor and because of the
great potential of the gene therapy field.

   ""Gene therapy holds great promise for the future, but there is
a long way to go,'' said Feigin.  Diseases that will be targets
of gene therapy include myotonic dystrophy, AIDS, cancer,
cystic fibrosis and metabolic problems, he said.

   ""Current techniques allow doctors to diagnose a wide variety
of genetic disorders - even in embryos,'' said Dr. Arthur
Beaudet, director of the institute of molecular genetics at
Baylor.

   ""But our ability to do anything about it is limited.  Gene
therapy has the potential to change that dramatically,'' he
said.

   Baylor has been working toward that goal for decades, Beaudet
said.  ""In fact, it was one of the earliest institutions to
commit to working toward gene therapy,'' he said .

   Currently, he said, Baylor researchers are considering tests
in humans of genetic therapies for AIDS in children, brain and
prostate cancer and metabolic disorders.

   But Beaudet cautioned against false hope.

   ""A decade from now, gene therapy may have tremendous impact on
the field of medicine,'' he said.  But he predicted that there
will be ""years of tough slogging in laboratories before that
is achieved. ''

   The $ 5 million gift will be used to recruit a director and
other faculty members for the center, said Feigin.  It also
will enable the center to secure facilities and equipment to
carry out the research.

   Beaudet is acting director of the center and will head a
search committee for a permanent director.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996


                             2928 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                         Copyright 1996 Star Tribune
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                        February 26, 1996, Metro Edition

SECTION: News; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: With trial over, what happens to ALG?;
 Najarian hasn't given up on drug

BYLINE: Gordon Slovut; Staff Writer

BODY:

    Lost in the four-year drama swirling around Dr. John Najarian is the
ignominious fate of ALG, the antirejection serum he developed that was the core
of the government's case against him.

    Najarian may have won the trial, but medicine lost what was a highly
successful and effective therapy that in its day doubled the survival rate of
transplant patients.

    Two other, more expensive drugs have replaced ALG on the market, but in its
day, ALG was so successful that transplant surgeons from all over the country
beat a path to Najarian's door to try to match his success rate.

    Thousands of people are living today with other people's kidneys,
pancreases, livers and hearts because of ALG.

    ALG's most important contribution before the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) shut down university production in August 1992 was preventing rejection
during the weeks and months after an organ transplant, and it was used, most
often, during the first seven to 10 days of a transplant.

    The drug attacked and killed lymphocytes, white blood cells that attack
viruses and other foreign invaders and can destroy a transplanted organ.
Lymphocytes are very powerful and are especially hard to control in infants and
young children.

    Although most transplant experts say ALG is history, Najarian said he has
not given up on getting it back into production.

    If he ever gets his situation at the University of Minnesota straightened
out again, he may try to get production resumed, he said. But first he would
have to get back the $ 15 million building built with ALG profits.

    The university has turned over the building to its human gene-therapy
program, the cell-therapy program that produces cells for bone-marrow
transplants, and the biotherapy program, which is developing products designed
to deliver drugs directly to tumors.

    The alternatives to MALG (ALG's product name) are ATGAM, a similar,
horse-derived product produced by the Upjohn Co., which Najarian says turned
down an offer more than 20 years ago to produce ALG, and OKT-3, a product
produced from mouse cells that has similar properties to ALG that is produced by
Ortho Pharmaceuticals Co.

    When production of MALG was halted, the university transplanters said the
cost for a 10-day dosage of MALG averaged about $ 1,500, whereas the cost of the
other two antirejection products averaged anywhere from $ 3,000 to $ 8,000.

    Research indicates that the success rates - prevention of organ rejection -
for ATGAM and OKT-3 are similar to those of ALG. In some studies, a higher rate
of serious side effects was associated with OKT-3. It's not always clear that a
certain transplant drug produced an ill effect, because the patients often are
taking two or more drugs at the same time.

    Some researchers think ALG is better than the other two at preventing
rejection; others don't. Some think that if the FDA had allowed production and
use of MALG to continue, it may have been able to determine which transplant
recipients do better or worse on each product. ALG, for example, controls both
types of lymphocytes - B- and T-cells - while ATGAM and OKT-3 have been shown to
go after T-cells only.

    When he arrived at the university as chief of surgery in 1967, Najarian
brought ALG, then in a laboratory stage, with him. Several transplant centers
were working with it, hoping it would prevent rejection by holding down the
activity or production of lymphocytes.

    ALG is the cells that a horse produces to fight off human lymphocytes that
have been injected into its body.

    In the form available before Najarian figured out how to produce a better
version of the horse serum, ALG had to be injected into the muscle, causing
severe pain and complications. Najarian's team developed improved ways of
removing the impurities and a method to drip the serum painlessly into patients'
veins.

    To make sure the serum depressed the immune system, university neurologists
tested it on people with multiple sclerosis, a disease in which an overactive
immune system attacks the nervous system. The MS symptoms lessened.  Researchers
also tested the serum on patients given skin transplants. Those given the ALG
didn't reject the grafts. Both trials indicated to Najarian that he had found a
way to improve control of a transplant patient's immune system.

    According to Leonard Wilson, a University of Minnesota medical historian,
Najarian tested ALG successfully in 150 patients and submitted a new-drug
application to the FDA in 1969.

    In 1970 the FDA approved his application, but did not give him permission to
sell it for a profit, a failure that would haunt Najarian later when the FDA
contended that the university had made large profits from sale of the drug.

    In the early 1970s Najarian was appearing at medical meetings, telling about
his success with ALG. That encouraged other surgeons to order supplies of their
own.

    "The one-year survival for kidney grafts had been about 40 percent," said
Dr. David Sutherland, a university organ-transplant surgeon. "With ALG, it rose
to about 80 percent."

    Najarian said Sutherland's estimate of the improvement is "a bit high.  I
think it improved about 30 percent."

    Najarian's staff was still producing small amounts of ALG in a medical
school lab, and he began shopping for a drug company to take over research and
deal with the FDA. "No one was interested," Najarian said. "They didn't see it
as a big enough market."

    He said that one of his researchers arranged for Kallestad Laboratories, a
small operation then in St. Louis Park, to try to take over the ALG program, but
that the company was too small to handle the enormous cost of getting FDA
approval for marketing, and dropped the project after about a year.

    Production returned to the university, demand for ALG increased, and the
university accumulated enough reserves to build the $ 15 million ALG factory.

    The plant never was licensed by the FDA.

    Part of the problem was the requirement that ALG be tested under FDA rules
for effectiveness - compared against therapies known to be less effective, said
Dr. William Payne, another university transplant surgeon. He said it is
unethical, once a drug is proved to be effective, to deny patients access to a
product that could save their lives.

    Sutherland said insulin, which is used to treat diabetes, is a good example
of a drug that never went through double-blind studies and shouldn't be put
through them.

    "Would you ask the parent of a diabetic child to risk what will happen if
the child doesn't get insulin" but is given a placebo instead?  he asked.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1996


                             2929 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                          February 21, 1996 Wednesday

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-4

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A one-size-fits-all overview of genes

BYLINE: Scott LaFee | Leigh Fenly

BODY:

   Brief reports by Quest writers of new books on science, medicine and the
environment. [] Genetic Engineering Enzo Russo and David Cover (Freeman, 234
pages, $22.95) Unlike the famously altered MacGregor tomato, the topic of
genetic engineering doesn't seem nearly as fresh as it did only a few years ago.
Story after story has been written about the prospects of gene therapy, the
threat of genetically engineered organisms, the peril and promise of the Human
Genome Project. Russo and Cove cover no new ground in this book, but that's not
to say "Genetic Engineering" isn't worthwhile, particularly for readers looking
for a broad and basic one-stop source of information. Russo and Cove, both
respectable scientists, cover the spectrum.

   They discuss human embryo research, the misuse of genetic screening, the
possibility of erasing certain genetic diseases and the threat, real or
imagined, of genetically engineered microbes being released into the
environment.

   The information is straightforward, readable and enlightening. -- Scott LaFee
[] The Snows of Olympus: A Garden on Mars Arthur C. Clarke (Norton; 122 pages;
$25) Right now life on Mars would be impossible.

   The planet has almost no atmosphere, leaving it bitterly cold, essentially
waterless and lacking oxygen.

   Gravity is 100 times weaker than on Earth.

   And the terrain is unforgiving. But Mars is our best shot at a home away from
home, and Clark tells why and how the red planet could be made hospitable to
humankind.

   Central to the idea is the concept of "terraforming" -- warming Mars and
creating conditions necessary for free-flowing water and abundant oxygen. Clarke
fully explains this intriguing notion in an engaging tone.

   The book is loaded with illustrations of Martian landscapes, spacecraft
designs and proposed housing and agricultural installations that will set the
reader's imagination buzzing. -- Leigh Fenly [] The Story of Your Life Mandy
Aftel (Simon & Schuster; 256 pages; $22) Traditional psychotherapy means finding
and confronting your demons, whatever they may be.

   It is often an emotional, gut-wrenching experience that leaves the person
with, perhaps, a whole new set of problems. Now comes something called
"narrative therapy," which aims at finding safe and satisfying psychological
solutions by driving a wedge between the problem and the person. For example, a
woman suffering from anorexia would be cajoled, over time, to remember moments
when she didn't feel the urge to essentially starve herself.

   From these recollections, the therapist would draw out the woman's inner
strength to fight back. Instead of viewing anorexia as a part of her being, it
would be a visible, separate enemy, something she could beat. Narrative therapy
is part of the postmodernist notion that people don't perceive the world so much
as interpret it, then make up stories in their minds that help give points of
reference and footing. Narrative therapists believe these stories can be
recalled, reordered and redeemed.

   It's psychotherapy for the '90s. -- By Scott LaFee [] Bombardier Beetles and
Fever Trees William Agosta (Addison-Wesley; 224 pages; $25) If you pinch a
bombardier beetle on the leg, it squirts hot, noxious chemicals at you with a
loud pop.

   In nature's garden, both the hunters and the hunted use chemical weaponry as
a major survival tool. The techniques are as varied as the creatures.

   Nudibranches, soft-bodied mollusks, steal their chemical supply from sea
anemones and corals.

   Monarch butterflies get their defenses from eating milkweed leaves.

   Starlings select oil-rich plants to fumigate their nests. Agosta documents
human use of plant and animal chemicals since the beginning of history and also
investigates the role of natural chemicals in human health -- from quinine for
malaria to Taxol for breast cancer.

   It's a fascinating and highly readable account. -- Leigh Fenly [] The Three
Big Bangs Phillip M. Dauber and Richard A. Muller (Addison-Wesley; 208 pages;
$25) This is a book about violence, say its authors, about physical forces so
calamitously destructive that they "dwarf the most vicious crimes that humans
have committed against humans and the most horrible natural catastrophes that
have taken place on Earth." The culprits, of course, are things cosmological:
comet crashes, exploding stars and, the biggest bang of all, the creation of the
universe.

   Dauber and Muller, a pair of physicists, argue that life on Earth is the
result of these three big bangs.

   First the one that created the universe, then the explosion of a supernova
that led to the arrival of heavy elements and the beginning of simple life and,
finally, the theorized asteroid or comet collision 65 million years ago that
wiped out the dinosaurs and triggered the widespread evolution of mammals.
That's a lot to tie together, of course, and not everyone will buy the final
product.

   The physicists do, however, bring into focus a point often overlooked when
scientists debate life on Earth: Everything here has a link out there.

   All life owes at least part of its origin to extraordinary physical forces in
the universe we struggle to conceive, let alone understand. -- Scott LaFee []
The Octopus's Garden: Hydrothermal Vents and Other Mysteries of the Deep Sea
Cindy Lee Van Dover (Helix; 192 pages; $20) Only recently have oceanographers
discovered the frontier of the ocean floor, 9,000 to 12,000 feet below sea
level.

   Here live 6-foot-long tube worms, transparent sea cucumbers and blind shrimp
in geysers that spew 600-degree water. Van Dover was the first woman to pilot
the Alvin, one of the few deep-sea submersibles used to explore the ocean floor.

   She recounts in detail not only what she has seen in this wild environment,
but also how tough it was to get there.

   Like others, she traveled the rocky path of women in science. Her eyewitness
account is vivid and exciting -- and may be the closest you'll want to come to
exploring the ocean floor wilderness. -- Leigh Fenly

GRAPHIC: 2 PICS; CAPTIONS: 1. (Book cover) 2. (Book cover)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2930 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   February 19, 1996, Monday, 3 STAR Edition

SECTION: a; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: March of Dimes WalkAmerica sets goal for year at $ 1.8 million

BYLINE: Staff

BODY:

   The 26th annual March of Dimes WalkAmerica campaign is under
way, with this year's goal set at raising $ 1.8 million for the
fight against birth defects and infant mortality.

   The March of Dimes Walk-America events - 9-mile walks in
seven different locations - are set for 8 a.m. on April 14.

   The main WalkAmerica site will be at Rice University and more
than 25,000 participants are expected.

   The Rice walk is the largest in the nation and last year
walkers raised about $ 1.7 million chapterwide.

   This year's chair of the event is Bill Anderson, president of
Oshman's Sporting Goods Inc

   The money raised will be used for various programs, such as:

   Pioneering gene therapy research that could lead to treatment
of cystic fibrosis, sickle cell disease and diabetes;

   Mobile clinics that bring prenatal care to women;
 Worksite prenatal care health promotion programs;

   Multimedia campaigns to teach women that taking the B vitamin
folic acid helps prevent certain birth defects;

   And the campaign to educate couples about prenatal care.

   In the past 26 years, WalkAmerica has raised more than $ 800
million nationally.  The money raised has funded several
medical breakthroughs, including newborn screening test for
PKU to prevent mental retardation and the development of
surfactant therapy to treat respiratory distress syndrome and
help premature babies breathe.

   Money is raised by walkers receiving sponsorship for the
event.  Last year, the average raised by each walker was $ 107.

   To register for WalkAmerica, call the March of Dimes at 713
623-2020.

   The other sites for the April 14 walk are Ellington/Clear
Lake, Fort Bend, Greenspoint, Kingwood, The Woodlands, and
west Houston.


GRAPHIC: Mug: Bill Anderson

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996


                             2931 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            February 19, 1996 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: AN ENDANGERED SPECIES . Science is on shaky ground in attempting to

BYLINE: Lawrence Hall

BODY:

   Science is on shaky ground in attempting to alter man's nature As a great old
song points out, things ain't what they used to be. And now human beings are
changing their nature.

    Hannah Arendt, a great spirit who wrote ``Origins of Totalitarianism'` and
other seminal works, maintained that the conquest of space was proof of just
such a change. From space has come a multitude of technologies that support the
contention that we are indeed changing as a species.

    What started me thinking about this was a series of news stories about
scientists searching for and isolating genes that determine behavioral traits.

    Recently, for example, a study by scientists at the University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine revealed that lead poisoning may contribute significantly to
criminal behavior, especially in the nation's urban areas. The study of 301 city
boys found that those with above-normal lead values were more prone to
aggression and had higher delinquency scores. In another study, this one by a
Jerusalem hospital, scientists identified a gene that influences impulsive
personalities.

    While these and similar studies are widely hailed, I am troubled that the
data may be used to alter people's behavior, especially that of urban
youngsters. A great deal of research is being done in an attempt to link
aggressive behavior by these kids to some genetic flaw as opposed to persistent
social problems like poverty and racism.

    You would be surprised at the number of drug therapies being administered to
urban youngsters as a means of altering their aggressive personalities. I think
the real mischief makers are the behaviorists, the geneticists and assorted
other scientists who have run riot and are hell-bent on changing the nature of
man.

    Our lives are flavor-enhanced, hermetically sealed, genetically altered and
infused with many other Cyborg qualities brought to us from the research
laboratories.

    I'm not maligning the hundreds of thousands of scientists and physicians
engaged in legitimate research. What concerns me are those Dr. Frankensteins who
believe that they are destined by the gods to change the nature of all living
things. It's dicey to implant the bone marrow of a baboon in human tissue or to
insert a human gene into a pig or genetically alter a tomato.

    You have to marvel at some of the successes of biotechnology and genetic
engineering and the immense contributions these fields have made to the family
of man. But despite these scientific and medical achievements, life is getting
kind of scary in this brave new world.

    Through such processes as cloning, gene therapy and new birth technologies,
we are creating profound dilemmas that the world has never before had to
confront. It's frightening.

    Practically not a week goes by without these moral and ethical questions
arising as attempts are made to change our nature. Consider the implications of
these events, which took place last year:

    In London, a 49-year-old woman announced plans to act as a surrogate mother
and have a baby for her daughter.

    In Rome, a Catholic priest with a blocked sperm duct asked a famous Italian
fertility doctor to help his girlfriend have their test-tube baby.

    In New York, two lesbians who conceived daughters by the same sperm donor
are seeking to cross-adopt each other's offspring.

    Yes, it's getting pretty crazy in this Orwellian world, and I've only
mentioned dramas involving reproductive rights.

    We've reached a sad point when the human body is viewed as nothing more than
a manufacturing plant to be exploited. It boggles the mind, for instance, that
there are plenty of folks who traffic in body parts and fluids and fetal tissue.
Regardless of the legality, billions are being made annually across the world in
this dubious quest to change the nature of man.

    But why is there such a mindless race to change the physical structure of
the human species? Is it because some want to create a ``master race'` or even
to harness the aggression of certain children?

    Perhaps we won't know until it's too late. PAR

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2932 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                    February 19, 1996, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F08; APPOINTMENTS

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Appointments

BODY:


   Associations/Nonprofit

   Michael S. Nelson was named executive director of the Audubon Naturalist
Society of Chevy Chase.

   The Nautical Research Guild Inc. of Alexandria appointed Richard T. Strange
treasurer.

   Oliver Davidson was named director of in-kind donations for the American Red
Cross in Washington.

   The District of Columbia Chamber of Commerce elected Dana B. Stebbins
president, John L. Green president-elect, A. Scott Bolden first vice president,
Fernando Barrueta second vice president, Linda Bolliger secretary, Shireen
Dodson treasurer and Pierce DeGross financial secretary.

   The Household Goods Forwarders Association of America in Alexandria appointed
David S. Germroth director of government affairs.

   Mark Schultz was named chief operating officer for the Small Business
Foundation of America in Washington.

   The Marrow Foundation of Washington elected Edward E. Horgan Jr., Cole J.
McCombs, Patsy A. Randell and George D. Varoutsos to its board.

   Jim Guest was appointed president of Handgun Control Inc. and the Center to
Prevent Handgun Violence of Washington.

   M. Gene Konopik was elected to the board of Armed Forces Communications and
Electronics Association of McLean.

   The Cato Institute of Washington named David C. Quast director of public
affairs.

   Janet Trunzo was appointed director of technology and regulatory affairs for
the Health Industry Manufacturers Association of Washington.

   Dorothy S. Ridings was named president and chief executive of the Council on
Foundations of Washington.

   The American Academy of Physician Assistants of Alexandria appointed Jane
Howard director of communications.

   Christopher R. Rasmus was elected president-elect of the Virginia Auctioneers
Association.

   Companies

   Porter/Novelli of Washington promoted Nancy Tringali to vice president of
food, nutrition and lifestyle practice and Martha Bernard Welsh to senior vice
president.

   Chris Papas was promoted to vice president of food and beverage for the Manor
Care Hotels of Silver Spring.

   CMG Health of Owings Mills appointed Karen E. Hoehn to director of government
programs development.

   April McGrath was named senior sales manager for the Hotel Roanoke and
Conference Center of Roanoke.

   Technology, Management and Analysis Corp. of Arlington appointed William R.
Winston director of contracts.

   Lisa Robinson was promoted to director of public relations for ANA Hotel of
Washington.

   Janet Gale was named chief operations officer for Walcoff & Associates Inc.
of Fairfax.

   The Grand Hyatt Washington appointed Ulrich Baumeister associate director of
sales and Fran Lappin meeting connection manager, and promoted Theresa DeConinck
to director of national accounts.

   Statistica Inc. of Rockville promoted Robert M. Schoenborn to vice president
of the software engineering division and the defense systems group.

   Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. of Hampstead, Md., appointed Frank Tworecke
executive vice president and chief merchandising officer.

   Mark E. Hawkins was named vice president and director of Virginia Health Care
Consultants Inc. of Fairfax.

   Quincie Rivers was named district manager for BOSS Services/MacTemps of
Gaithersburg.

   David Meehan was promoted to president of the retail stores division for
Color Me Beautiful of Chantilly.

   Oncor Inc. of Gaitherburg named Kenneth W. Culver director of gene therapy
research and clinical affairs for its OncorPharm Inc. unit.

   A.T. Kearney elected Jeff Ward vice president of transportation in its
Washington office.

   Cassidy & Pinkard Inc. of Washington named W. David Bevirt and Richard C.
Tonner Jr. vice presidents of leasing.

   Robb Deigh was appointed senior vice president of Ryan-McGinn of Arlington.

   First Virginia Banks Inc. of Falls Church promoted Barry A. Cook to assistant
vice president.

   Hollister Cantus was appointed to the board of Aerospatiale Inc. of
Washington.

   MAXM Systems Corp. of McLean named Brendan Dawson president and chief
executive.

   Send information about promotions, appointments and personnel moves in the
Washington area to Appointments, Business News Department, The Washington Post,
1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071-5302. All material must be submitted in
writing. Faxes are not acceptable.


GRAPHIC: Photo, DANA B. STEBBINS JANET GALE

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996


                             2933 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Chicago Sun-Times, Inc.
                               Chicago Sun-Times

              February 18, 1996, SUNDAY, Late Sports Final Edition

SECTION: SUNDAY NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Man, Beast: Perilous Mix?

BYLINE: BY ROGER HIGHFIELD

BODY:


   The chimera, a fabulous beast made up of the body parts of many animals, is
one of the most enduring figures of legend. Modern science is beginning to bring
that myth to life -- and while such innovation will always prompt the specter of
the monster in the laboratory, it is only by manipulating the mechanisms of life
itself that science is helping to conquer disease.

   Blends of different mice that have recently been produced yield fundamental
insights into the way life develops, and mean that we can now investigate the
root of common hereditary diseases such as cystic fibrosis. The benefits for
medicine are potentially enormous.

   One day it will even be possible, for instance, to mix the cells of two
humans together, or pepper the mixture with foreign genes, which will open up an
impressive range of new treatments for hereditary disease. But inevitably this
will raise a disturbing range of ethical problems and will provoke an equally
disturbing response from some sections of the public.

   Just over 10 years ago we saw the creation of a "geep," a blend of a sheep
and goat. Now that the first experiment has taken place to mix baboon bone
marrow with that of a human, the potential to manipulate life this way raises
important issues that demand wider debate. For example, could ape-human chimeras
ever be made? These would not be classical chimeras, a hirsute human, for
example, or a baboon's head married to a human body, but an intimate mixture of
ape and human cells.

   This uncomfortable possibility, albeit theoretical, has arisen from a
recently discovered ability to isolate and grow a type of cell called a stem
cell, the grandmother of all other cell types.

   The ultimate stem cell is the fertilized egg. As it divides, its progeny
become more suited to a task or organ, ending with a wide repertoire of
possibilities, each of which carries out a specific job, whether in brain,
muscle or gut.

   En route to an adult, more specialized stem cells develop. For example, there
are blood stem cells, from which all the blood's red and white blood cells
arise, and stem cells that proliferate to form and renew the skin.

   One leading light in stem-cell research is Professor Martin Evans of
Cambridge University. He was the first to isolate mouse embryonic stem cells and
found that huge numbers could be grown over long periods in the laboratory. They
provide new opportunities for genetic experiments yet each cell retains the
ability to reconstitute an entire rodent.

   Now Evans believes that the follow-up work may have gone too far: Dr. James
Thomas and colleagues at the Wisconsin Regional Primate Center in Madison have
become the first to grow stem cells from an early primate embryo, in a
technically challenging procedure in which the cells are bathed in special
factors and grown on a bed of sterilized rat cells.

   This opens the way to the creation of human embyronic stem cell line. "Public
debate is very important in this area," Evans said. He warned: "We should
proceed with extreme caution."

   Benefits, nevertheless, will arise from such research: for example, insights
into the development of the fetus, and what can go wrong. By conducting genetic
tweaking, it is also possible to persuade stem cells to grow into more
specialized types to repair a ravaged body.

   Researchers have already found a way to isolate and grow nervous system stem
cells,

   or cells very much like them, for transplant into the brain.

   "When we implanted these stemlike cells into special adult mouse models of
specific brain injury, the cells appear to recognize the changed brain
enironment and become precisely the type of nerve cell that is missing," said
Dr. Evan Snyder of Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
Another application would be to genetically engineer blood stem cells and use
them to correct a hereditary disease such as hemophilia, said Charles Harris of
the Wisconsin team. Once stem cells have been armed with a gene responsible for
a missing blood factor, they can be introduced into the marrow so that blood can
clot again.

   There is another route to the same end. Unlike adults, embryos have no immune
system and tolerate big genetic differences. This raises the possibility that
stem cells from an aborted embryo could be grown in the laboratory and mixed
with that of a living embryo to create a human chimera, one consisting of a
blend of cells rather than genetic blueprints -- the usual result of genetic
engineering, and sex, too.

   By introducing a small percentage of normal stem cells into a fetus that
lacks the key enzyme ADA, and thus lacks immune protection, it could be possible
to correct the potentially fatal defect in the resulting chimera. Embryonic stem
cells could have an additional ADA gene implanted and then be mixed with those
of an afflicted embryo, indeed any foreign gene could be dispersed this way
throughout the body.

   This sophisticated form of genetic manipulation has a disquieting spin-off.
The eggs and sperm -- and thus children -- of a chimera could be the genetic
descendants of an aborted fetus, or pass on implanted genes, a form of gene
therapy that is outlawed in humans because it affects future generations.

   "I find it difficult to see any potential justification for this," Evans
said. "It has so many dangers associated with it. It is illegal and should
remain so."

   The most extreme implication of this research would be a primate-human
hybird, or a human-primate hybrid, depending on which species contributed the
most cells to the chimera. For example, it would be possible to "humanize"
primates by implanting human genes that make their tissues suitable for
transplant into man, helping to overcome the acute shortage of donor organs.

   An American team has already tested this idea by replacing 20 percent of
baboon bone marrow with human stem cells, so the monkeys have various lineage of
human blood cells as a result. The team success is down to a novel type of cell
-- present at levels of one per 200,000 in bone marrow -- a so-called
"facilitating" cell that helps prevent a serious rejection problem, called graft
vs. host disease, and allows introduction of purified stem cells into otehr
species.

   "In the past, when researchers tried to transplant stem cells into
genetically different recipents they were universally rejected," said team
member Dr. Suzanne Ildstad of the University of Pittsburgh.

   In recent weeks, the team has attempted to produce a mixture of human and
baboon blood cells for a radical new AIDS treatment (see story below). But this
also raises the issue of whether it would ever be possible to mix embryonic stem
cells from primate and man. Such work could have bizarre consequences: for one,
the resulting chimera could look human but produce primate sperm.

   However, whether there would ever be any good reason for this horrendous
experiment to be performed is doubtful.

GRAPHIC: This chimeric mouse (front) is a mixture of black and white mice.  ;
LONDON DAILY TELEGRAPH

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996


                             2934 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            February 18, 1996 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: MIDDLESEX; Pg. 210

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: AN ENDANGERED SPECIES Science is on shaky ground in attempting to

BODY:

   Science is on shaky ground in attempting to alter man's nature As a great old
song points out, things ain't what they used to be. And now human beings are
changing their nature.

    Hannah Arendt, a great spirit who wrote ``Origins of Totalitarianism'` and
other seminal works, maintained that the conquest of space was proof of just
such a change. From space has come a multitude of technologies that support the
contention that we are indeed changing as a species.

    What started me thinking about this was a series of news stories about
scientists searching for and isolating genes that determine behavioral traits.

    Recently, for example, a study by scientists at the University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine revealed that lead poisoning may contribute significantly to
criminal behavior, especially in the nation's urban areas. The study of 301 city
boys found that those with above-normal lead values were more prone to
aggression and had higher delinquency scores. In another study, this one by a
Jerusalem hospital, scientists identified a gene that influences impulsive
personalities.

    While these and similar studies are widely hailed, I am troubled that the
data may be used to alter people's behavior, especially that of urban
youngsters. A great deal of research is being done in an attempt to link
aggressive behavior by these kids to some genetic flaw as opposed to persistent
social problems like poverty and racism.

    You would be surprised at the number of drug therapies being administered to
urban youngsters as a means of altering their aggressive personalities. I think
the real mischief makers are the behaviorists, the geneticists and assorted
other scientists who have run riot and are hell-bent on changing the nature of
man.

    Our lives are flavor-enhanced, hermetically sealed, genetically altered and
infused with many other Cyborg qualities brought to us from the research
laboratories.

    I'm not maligning the hundreds of thousands of scientists and physicians
engaged in legitimate research. What concerns me are those Dr. Frankensteins who
believe that they are destined by the gods to change the nature of all living
things. It's dicey to implant the bone marrow of a baboon in human tissue or to
insert a human gene into a pig or genetically alter a tomato.

    You have to marvel at some of the successes of biotechnology and genetic
engineering and the immense contributions these fields have made to the family
of man. But despite these scientific and medical achievements, life is getting
kind of scary in this brave new world.

    Through such processes as cloning, gene therapy and new birth technologies,
we are creating profound dilemmas that the world has never before had to
confront. It's frightening.

    Practically not a week goes by without these moral and ethical questions
arising as attempts are made to change our nature. Consider the implications of
these events, which took place last year:

    In London, a 49-year-old woman announced plans to act as a surrogate mother
and have a baby for her daughter.

    In Rome, a Catholic priest with a blocked sperm duct asked a famous Italian
fertility doctor to help his girlfriend have their test-tube baby.

    In New York, two lesbians who conceived daughters by the same sperm donor
are seeking to cross-adopt each other's offspring.

    Yes, it's getting pretty crazy in this Orwellian world, and I've only
mentioned dramas involving reproductive rights.

    We've reached a sad point when the human body is viewed as nothing more than
a manufacturing plant to be exploited. It boggles the mind, for instance, that
there are plenty of folks who traffic in body parts and fluids and fetal tissue.
Regardless of the legality, billions are being made annually across the world in
this dubious quest to change the nature of man.

    But why is there such a mindless race to change the physical structure of
the human species? Is it because some want to create a ``master race'` or even
to harness the aggression of certain children?

    Perhaps we won't know until it's too late. Lawrence Hall is a Star-Ledger
columnist.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2935 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 The Washington Post
                              The Washington Post

                  February 14, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Panel That Reviews Gene Tests in Humans Has No Applications

BYLINE: Rick Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writer

BODY:


   For the first time in six years, the government committee that approves gene
therapy experiments in human patients has canceled its quarterly meeting because
it has no new proposals to consider.

   Members of the National Institutes of Health review group, known as the
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, or RAC, said the lack of requests may be an
indication that companies and scientists are reassessing gene therapy's value in
the light of a recent report concluding that the experimental treatment has been
"oversold."

   But they said the meeting's cancellation was mostly the result of a new,
"streamlined" approval process that allows proposals that are similar to
experiments that have been allowed in the past to go directly to the Food and
Drug Administration for consideration. The FDA previously had received such
proposals only after lengthy NIH review. The committee members said that every
gene therapy proposal received in the last few months was sufficiently lacking
in originality to bypass the RAC.

   The apparent slowdown in the field -- at least in the area of human testing
-- has dismayed some committee members. Some are wondering whether the
streamlining process has encouraged scientists to offer unimaginative proposals
that probably will be approved quickly but are less likely to lead to promising
new treatments.

   "We may not be accomplishing what we'd hoped to," said said Nelson A. Wivel,
RAC executive secretary.

   The RAC has approved about 120 gene therapy protocols since NIH researchers
got the first go-ahead in 1990. More than 600 patients have been enrolled in
clinical trials. In recent years, the pace has accelerated as biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies have come to dominate the field, hoping to profit from
the insertion of therapeutic genes into people suffering from cancer, AIDS, or
various hereditary diseases. So far, no form of gene therapy has been found to
cure a disease, although one experimental treatment appeared to help children
with a rare enzyme deficiency.

   The number of proposals has dropped in recent months from the dozen or more
per quarter seen earlier last year. Wivel said the recent decline could be
related to an NIH advisory committee report, released in December, that
suggested the still unproved therapy had moved too quickly into widespread human
clinical trials.

   In addition, an experimental "expedited review" system, established last
July, has allowed most gene therapy proposals to be forwarded to the FDA after
quick review by a few RAC members who simply compare notes by conference call.

   Under the still evolving system, proposals deemed essentially the same as
others previously approved -- commonly known as "me too" proposals -- go
directly to the FDA. Since the system was inaugurated, about 75 percent of all
proposals have met the "me too" test, Wivel said.

   That's worrisome, said Abbey S. Meyers, a RAC member who is executive
director of the National Organization for Rare Disorders, in New Fairfield,
Conn. "Scientists and the companies are not coming up with original ideas," she
said. "They're all doing the same things everyone else is doing, and we already
know these old experiments don't work."

   Meyers said the tendency to concentrate on a few relatively risk-free
approaches was consistent with another disturbing trend in the gene therapy
business: an overemphasis on cancer at the expense of efforts against inherited
diseases, which were initially considered the most logical targets for gene
therapy because most are caused by a single defective gene.

   "The easiest diseases to work on are the genetic diseases, but they
[biotechnology companies] don't want to do that," Meyers said. "If the disease
is rare, there's not a big market. Companies see the most potential profit in
cancer."

   Other RAC members were less critical of current trends. "We've always had a
combination of protocols that have tried to use an old technique with a new
disease and protocols that marked a qualitatively new approach," said LeRoy
Walters, RAC chairman and director of Georgetown University's Center for
Bioethics. "I think innovative protocols will continue to come forward."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996


                             2936 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      FEBRUARY 12, 1996 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: HOW PENN RESEARCHER IS TAKING ON BLINDNESS< GENE THERAPY ON MICE HAS
BEEN PROMISING. HUMAN< TRIALS ARE NEXT. THE TARGET: RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA.

BYLINE: Donald C. Drake, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   Jean Bennett knew that she had only one hour to convince the unsmiling
committee of scientists that her research project was worth supporting.

   A gentle wisp of a woman with long black hair tied back, Bennett thought she
had found a technique that might eventually prevent the most common form of
inherited blindness - retinitis pigmentosa (RP).

   Speaking quickly and moving rapidly from point to point, she was seeking
support from the University of Pennsylvania's Institute for Human Gene Therapy
to use genetic techniques against a disease that affects more than 100,000
people in the United States alone.

   Bennett, a Penn ophthalmologist, explained how she and her husband, eye
surgeon Albert Maguire, had temporarily repaired the genetic defect in mice.

   Normally, the animals are blind by the third week of life, said Bennett as
she flashed a color slide of a sightless newborn mouse on the screen at the head
of the conference table. But the animals she and Maguire treated were apparently
still able to see at eight weeks.

   After finishing her presentation, Bennett was bombarded with questions,
mostly from institute director James M. Wilson.

   Standing to leave for a meeting on another proposed gene therapy trial,
Wilson said the final decision would be made the following month, after Bennett
presented even more detailed information to the institute's executive committee.

   Wilson and the committee were impressed with Bennett's presentation. What she
had failed to make clear, however, was that few of the 100,000 RP patients had
been screened to determine which genetic form of the disease they had.

   In fact, only five people in the country were known to have the particular
gene defect she was working on. It was questionable that the institute would
embark on a human trial with so few subjects.

   * Bennett's head was spinning after her presentation to the committee last
summer.

   Only months earlier, she thought it would take another five years of work
before she could treat patients, and here she was about to draw up specific
plans for human trials.

   Though more than 200 human gene therapy trials against 25 diseases have been
approved throughout the world, this would be the first attempt to use the
potentially revolutionary treatment against an eye disease.

   Bennett knew that it was essential to get the institute's support.

   Not only would the institute make the drug used in the trial - a complicated
and time-consuming process - but it would also provide and care for the many
animals needed for preclinical tests, get the drug-safety data required by the
Food and Drug Administration before human trials can start, move the project
through the complicated local and federal regulatory processes, draw up a
budget, and help get money for the study.

   Most scientists don't have the resources to do all these things, and Bennett
was well aware of promising research projects languishing in university
laboratories for want of such support.

   As director of the institute, Wilson is forever pressing scientists like
Bennett to think of ways of using gene therapy to treat the diseases in which
they specialize.

   Penn oncologists have just started human trials with a drug against
mesothelioma, a rare cancer of tissue lining the chest wall and lungs.

   A similar drug for brain cancer, which the institute also helped develop, is
about to undergo human testing. A gene drug for a rare childhood liver disease -
ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency - is going through final regulatory
reviews preparatory to human trials, which should begin in a few months.

   And Wilson himself is in the middle of trials of a drug for the inherited
lung disease cystic fibrosis.

   Walking out into the bright afternoon sunlight with her husband and the third
member of their team, noted RP specialist Samuel Jacobson, Bennett talked with
the others about what now must be done to get ready for the next meeting.

   Jacobson was as bewildered by the fast-moving events as was Bennett. Having
joined the Penn faculty only a month earlier, he hadn't even finished unpacking
his books.

   It was the possibility of doing gene therapy research on RP that had
attracted the shy, soft-spoken specialist to Philadelphia.

   After having spent so many years with patients for whom he could do little,
it was exciting for Jacobson to think that they might be on the verge of
developing a treatment for this cruel disease.

   * Bennett, 40, and Maguire, 35, started experimenting with gene therapy in
1990, shortly after completing their medical training.

   With practically no research money and working in a basement sink in the
Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich., the husband-and-wife team had few
successes at first.

   It wasn't until the summer of 1993, after Maguire became a surgeon at the
Scheie Eye Institute and Bennett arrived at Penn, that things began to look up.
Rather than working in a basement sink, she had use of the beautifully equipped
labs in Scheie's F.M. Kirby Center of Molecular Ophthalmology.

   And Wilson had just arrived at Penn, announcing that he was setting up the
gene therapy institute and looking for projects. Having worked under him as a
medical student when Wilson was an intern at Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, Bennett sent Wilson an I-bet-you-don't-remember-me letter and a request
for a get-together.

   Wilson did remember her and was eager to talk about gene therapy. Huddling
over a little wooden table in Wilson's office, the two spent an hour discussing
the prospects of using it to treat eye disease.

   Bennett explained how RP was actually many different genetic diseases, each
caused by a defect in a different gene. Though probably dozens of genes are
involved, most produce the same damage to the photoreceptor cells in the retina.

   In humans, RP begins with poor night vision in childhood. The disease then
strikes the periphery of the retina, covering photoreceptor cells with a black
pigment that blocks light. The disease is named for these pigments.

   As the damage slowly moves to the center of the retina, the patient develops
tunnel vision that grows progressively narrow until the patient is completely
blind, usually before the age of 50.

   Bennett told Wilson that she thought the potential for treating RP with gene
therapy was good because six RP genes had been identified.

   She wanted to work with the gene that makes phosphodiesterase (PDE), an
enzyme that helps turn light waves into neurological signals the brain can
interpret. She wanted to work with PDE because some mice had defects in this
gene, providing her animals with which to test the therapy.

   Bennett wanted to inject viruses containing the PDE gene into the retina. The
virus would infect the photoreceptor cells and deposit the PDE gene, which would
start making the enzyme that RP patients lacked.

   It was technically difficult since the eye of a newborn mouse is smaller than
the tip of a ballpoint pen, but Maguire had no doubts that he could get the
vector in.

   Wilson was so impressed with Bennett's ideas and enthusiasm that he gave her
the genetically altered viruses, or vectors, with which to experiment.

   For two years, starting in the summer of 1993, the couple worked with
Wilson's vectors, first testing them on photoreceptor cells in the test tube and
then injecting them into the retina of mice. Since no one had ever done this
before, there were many things to learn, such as when to treat the animals.

   They thought the sooner the better since the disease quickly blinded the
rodents, so they injected the mice immediately after birth. But the mothers kept
eating their young because they had been touched by humans.

   This didn't happen when the scientists waited until the animals were four
days old - still enough time to start treatment since the disease didn't start
destroying the retina until one week after birth.

   RP blinds mice so quickly that Bennett would have been happy to slow down the
process by even a few days. She wasn't prepared for what happened. The therapy
prevented the disease, at least temporarily.

   Normally by the second week of life, RP has extensively damaged the eye,
covering the entire retina with black specks of pigment. But the photoreceptors
that had taken up PDE genes were still clear one month after birth.

   It wasn't until the fifth week that specks began to appear, apparently
because - for unknown reasons - the transplanted genes stopped working. Total
destruction of the treated area didn't occur until after the eighth week.

   Bennett found the results "amazing" and wondered if the treatment would last
longer in humans afflicted with a less virulent form of RP.

   Bennett didn't immediately tell Wilson about the results. Instead, she spent
three months doing more studies to make sure that the data were solid. She still
wasn't ready to say anything when Wilson's office called, requesting an update
on her work, last July. With little comment, she sent slides showing the treated
and untreated retina.

   Two days later, she received a handwritten note from Wilson asking her to
call him.

   "This is spectacular," he said when she phoned.

   A few weeks later, Bennett found herself standing before the institute's
research and development committee and talking about human trials.

   * As the date for the executive committee meeting approached, Wilson huddled
with Bennett, Maguire and Jacobson and pressed them with questions about the
incidence of the disease.

   Wilson wanted to know how hard it would be to recruit patients for the trial.

   Bennett pointed out that Jacobson was a national authority on RP, with a
large number of patients who came to him from all over the world.

   But how many have the PDE defect?

   That's difficult to say, Maguire said because the precise genetic defect
usually can't be identified with a routine eye exam. That requires costly lab
studies, which most ophthalmologists don't bother with since all forms of RP are
incurable.

   Only a small percentage of RP patients have been identified as having the PDE
defect, Jacobson said. How many? Wilson wanted to know.

   They knew of five.

   Wilson was shocked.

   Couldn't they go after a different form of RP with more identified patients,
he asked.

   Maguire said that more patients were known to have the form of RP called
choroideremia, because it can be picked up with routine eye exams, but that no
animals were known to have it.

   Bennett thought it was essential to test out prospective treatments on
animals before going to humans, so they had to do PDE.

   Wilson didn't want to abandon the project. He was impressed with Bennett's
animal studies and considered diseases of the eye, which is easier to reach than
other organs, ideal for gene therapy.

   He wanted Penn and his institute to lead this research, but he did not want
to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars preparing for a clinical trial without
the assurance of test subjects.

   The meeting with Wilson ended on an uncertain note. Bennett could see that
Wilson was having serious doubts. If he didn't want to do it, it was unlikely
that the executive committee would approve the project.

   For the next several days, Wilson mulled over what to do. It was clear to him
that if the only goal was to find an effective treatment for PDE, he would
oppose the project because the payoff in new knowledge would be too limited.

   But Bennett's PDE animal work proved that gene replacement can slow down RP.
If it worked with PDE, Wilson asked, why wouldn't it work with choroideremia?

   There was another argument for proceeding: Regardless of what form of RP was
ultimately chosen for treatment, the surgical procedure and vector would be the
same; only the gene carried by the vector would be different. With the exception
of animal testing, all the time-consuming preparatory work would be the same.

   And the need to know how to deliver these genes was growing. Six RP genes had
already been identified, and probably many more would be found in coming months.
It was important, Wilson thought, to know what was the best vector to use in eye
diseases, what was the best dose, and how to deliver it.

   It was not clear at all that the project should be abandoned.

   * Maguire and Jacobson were sitting at the conference table with members of
the executive committee when Bennett rushed in a few minutes late. She
immediately went to the head of the table and started her presentation.

   Recapping much of the material presented at the earlier meeting, she said
that, as they moved ahead with their preparations, they and other laboratories
would be screening blood to find more patients with PDE.

   Alan Davis, director of the institute's vector laboratory, said five vectors
would be studied to see which was best suited for delivering genes to eyes.

   Eric Wheeldon, who ran the institute's animal facility, said 50 mice, 160
rats and four monkeys would be used to test the different vectors before one was
put into humans.

   Jennifer Dennin, the institute's administrative coordinator, had priced out
all the things that would go into the study and estimated that it would cost
$330,000 to prepare for the human trial.

   The executive committee - composed of Wilson and five other researchers from
Penn, the Wistar Institute and Children's Seashore House - asked several
questions and thanked the scientists for coming.

   * Bennett, Maguire and Jacobson spent the next two weeks anxiously awaiting
word from the institute. Every afternoon, Maguire and Jacobson would call
Bennett to see if she had heard anything.

   Finally, Bennett received the letter from Wilson. The committee had agreed to
support planning for human trials of a drug against retinitis pigmentosa.

   The emphasis would be on finding the best vector to deliver genes to the
retina and determining the maximum safe drug dose.

   Though Bennett intended to push ahead with the PDE work, Wilson wasn't so
sure that this would be the RP gene defect finally chosen.

   Whatever it was, he wanted everything to be in place so they could go to
human trials as soon as it was chosen. A lot of momentum had been built up, and
Wilson had no intention of losing it.

   * Through the fall, Bennett and her colleagues moved quickly to prepare for
the animal studies.

   They arranged for the institute's vector lab to make viruses for pilot
studies. They asked the institute's animal facility to get and house the
animals.

   Bennett started assembling the human PDE gene for insertion into the vectors
that would be used in the human trials.

   And scientists at the University of Iowa, which has the largest RP screening
laboratory in the world, were asked to start looking for PDE patients.

   Finally, everything was in place. The first of the animal studies started
last month. And the list of PDE patients has grown to 12.

NOTES: THE QUEST: SEEKING AN ULTIMATE CURE
One in a series of occasional articles on gene therapy research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND DIAGRAM;
PHOTO (1)
1. Jean Bennett, a Penn ophthalmologist, smiles at a blind lab mouse that is
helping in her gene therapy study on retinitis pigmentosa. (The Philadelphia
Inquirer, VICKI VALERIO)
DIAGRAM (1)
1. Gene Therapy to Prevent Blindness (The Philadelphia Inquirer, CRISTINA
RIVERO)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2937 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     February 9, 1996, Friday, City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: Directors;
WHO'S WHAT WHERE

BODY:

    Citizens Financial Group Inc., Providence - Linda S. Wilson, president,
Radcliffe College, Cambridge; Trust for Public Land, San Francisco - James S.
Hoyte, assistant to the president, lecturer, environmental science, Harvard
University, Cambridge; CytoTherapeutics, Providence - Patrick Aebischer,
director, gene therapy center, Centre Hospitalier Universiitaire Vaudois,
Switzerland.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Wilson

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996


                             2938 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                   February 8, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: TELEGRAPH (NEWS), Pg. 2A, Sun Journal

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Putting human genes on the map; Biological cartographers: Imagine
mapping a human being's entire genetic makeup, with its 50,000 to 100,000 genes.

BYLINE: Jonathan Bor, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   In 1969, the year man first walked the moon, Dr. Victor A. McKusick proposed
that scientists map the genes that help make people what they are: blond or
brunette, giant or dwarf, daring or reluctant. The proposal must have seemed as
realistic as a mission to the sun.

   "It took a little nerve," says the Johns Hopkins physician, who admits that
nobody had the tools to pull it off.

   Then again, nobody envisioned that science would move as fast as it has.
Thanks to rapid advances in biology, scientists now regard the complete mapping
of the human genome as an inevitability. Researchers engaged in the Human Genome
Project, a multinational effort to map the genome by 2005, are ahead of schedule
and, they say, under budget.

   And what a map it is. The genome is the complete complement of genes --
50,000 to 100,000 of them -- contained in each cell of the body. The genes are
scattered along 23 pairs of chromosomes, coiled strands of DNA that in each cell
would measure 6 feet if stretched straight.

   Genes churn out proteins that make everything from your hair to your toes.
Each cell has the same complement of genes, but only certain ones are "switched
on" in a given cell. They are specialists, called into action to do things like
making hair curly or straight, toes stubby or long.

   "Biologists in the next century will look back on the 20th century as a
barbaric time, when scientists attempted to understand life without
understanding the basic elements," says Dr. Eric Lander, director of the Center
for Human Genome Research at the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass.

   The Human Genome Project has been to the biological sciences what President
John F. Kennedy's space program was to rocket travel: an organized effort to
reach a remote destination on deadline.

   "We could easily have found all the genes but it would have taken a hundred
years," Dr. Lander says. "The genome project compressed it to 15 years."

   A complete accounting of the human genome would function like the periodic
table, the chart found in the back of high school chemistry texts that lists the
building blocks of matter. A genome chart would list all the elements of a
person's inheritance, not just the genes but their chemical makeup and location
on the chromosomes.

   The genes have long recipes -- sequences of chemicals that number in the
thousands for each of the tens of thousands of genes. Mapping really means
deciphering the complete sequences and learning where each sequence falls on the
chromosomes.

   In December, scientists at the Whitehead Institute announced that they had
achieved an intermediate goal: completion of a "physical map" of the genome.
Using the latest tools of molecular biology, the Whitehead Institute isolated
15,000 chemical markers -- landmarks, in a sense, that divide the chromosomes
into distinct segments. Scientists hoping to locate traits can use the markers
to tour the genome quickly, much as readers use chapter headings to find their
way through volumes of text.

   What's left is the immense task of isolating the genes themselves and
figuring out what they do. Already, scientists have mapped about 3,500. A
thousand are "disease genes," responsible for 1,200 distinct disorders.

   These genes and their locations on the chromosomes are neatly cataloged in
"Mendelian Inheritance in Man," Dr. McKusick's encyclopedia of genetic diseases
that is in its 11th printing. Its readers can find the genetic basis of a
textbook's worth of disorders, such as Huntington's disease, night-blindness and
forms of epilepsy, dwarfism and cancer.

   Already, society is benefiting from some of the discoveries.

   When scientists found the gene that causes cystic fibrosis, a deadly
respiratory disease, one reward was a test that detects the disease in young
children and even fetuses. Couples concerned about passing the illness to their
offspring can also learn if they are carriers.

   Now, carriers can take another step -- costing about $ 7,000 -- to prevent
the birth of an afflicted child. They can conceive by in-vitro fertilization in
labs where scientists screen out embryos that carry the genetic flaw in
question. Once that is done, only the healthy embryos are implanted.

   Scientists also are experimenting with gene therapies, which are attempts to
cure diseases by implanting healthy, disease-fighting genes in people who lack
them. This is being tried for diseases including cystic fibrosis, kidney cancer,
an inherited form of emphysema and a congenital immune deficiency.

   Many authorities say it will be many years before researchers safely deliver
genes to their targets and in sufficient quantities to do any good. Perhaps the
therapies have been oversold, raising unrealistic hopes among the afflicted.

   The same knowledge could bring faster rewards in drug development. Rather
than supplying new genes, it may be easier to make drugs that supply the same
disease-fighting substances that are produced by healthy genes.

   Dr. Beryl Rosenstein, a cystic fibrosis specialist at the Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions, says genetic sequencing may also help doctors understand
the perplexing variability of the disease. Why, for instance, do some patients
have milder symptoms than others? Why does cystic fibrosis afflict the lungs and
pancreas in some patients but only the lungs in others? The secrets could be
hidden in the sequences -- the subtle differences that occur when the code is
jumbled ever so slightly.

   Shifting into his Jules Verne mode, Dr. McKusick envisions a day when a
newborn baby would get a "genome screen," a full chromosomal accounting that
could be encoded on a plastic card. "So whenever you went to the doctor, you'd
put your card in a reader and find out what should be looked at," he says.

   He and others in the field recognize the potential threats to privacy and the
need for safeguards. Insurers could use genetic information to deny coverage or
raise people's rates. Employers could demand access, too, hoping to learn
something about an applicant's intelligence or behavior.

   "Politically, how much information on the genome of a candidate for high
office should the public have access to?" Dr. McKusick asks. Should the public
know about a candidate's predisposition toward Alzheimer's disease? What about
depression? What about cancer?

   People eager for immediate payoffs from the map of the human genome are going
to be frustrated.

   When scientists found the gene for Huntington's disease a decade ago, they
produced a useful test. It tells people if they carry a time bomb that probably
will cause them to die from nerve degeneration. Such knowledge is terrifying but
important to people whose parents had the disease and wonder if they should have
children of their own.

   Isolating the Huntington's gene, however, has not produced a cure. Nor have
discoveries of genes for breast or colon cancer, though they give people strong
reasons to be screened earlier and more often than they otherwise would.

   So the mapping of the genome may create a paradox.

   "It is likely to increase the gap," says Dr. McKusick, "between what we think
we know and what we really know."

   "You could have mapped the entire United States by waiting until people made
their homes in every nook and cranny in the country."

   Instead, he notes, we sent out Lewis and Clarke.

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, Adapted from "Mendelian Inheritance in Man"/SUN STAFF,
From body to organ to cell to chromosome to gene

TYPE: COLUMN

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1996


                             2939 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
                            Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                    February 6, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BAYLIFE, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: What's the word on the street? Try these

BYLINE: PHILIP MORGAN

DATELINE: TAMPA

BODY:


   Here are some of the new official words added to updated versions of Random
House Webster's College Dictionary, scheduled to hit bookstores in April, and
Webster's New World College Dictionary, which came out last fall.

   Random House:

   Audio book - a recording of an oral reading of a book, often in abridged
form.

   Chat room - a branch of a computer system in which participants can engage in
live discussions with one another.

   Deadbeat dad - a father who neglects his responsibilities as a parent,
especially one who does not pay child support to his estranged wife.

   Lap dance - an erotic dance by a stripteaser performed largely in the lap of
a customer.

   Phone Sex - sexually explicit conversations engaged in on a telephone,
usually for a fee.

   Take-no-prisoners - wholeheartedly aggressive, zealous, gung-ho. Example: "a
businessman with a take-no-prisoners attitude toward deal-making."

   Webster's New World:

   Chunnel - railway tunnel that runs beneath the English Channel, between
England and France; 31 miles long.

   Dark matter - invisible matter whose existence is postulated by
astrophysicists to account for the large amount of observed gravitation that
cannot be accounted for by visible matter.

   Gene therapy - the experimental treatment of a disease by the use of
techniques associated with genetic engineering, as to modify or replace the
disease-causing genes of certain cells.

   Glass ceiling - an unofficial policy regarded as being imposed on women and
minorities that prevents them from advancing to higher positions in business,
government, etc.

   Nail-biter - a situation or activity, as a suspenseful or highly competitive
game in sports, with an outcome so uncertain that it creates much tension or
anxiety.

   Trophy wife - a wife younger and more physically attractive than the previous
wife of her older, usually wealthy husband and so regarded as symbolizing his
success.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (C),
 (C) (page from dictionary) TIM PRICE, Tribune illustration; dictionary from
Barnes & Noble Bookstore

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1996


                             2940 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 1996 The San Diego Union-Tribune
                          The San Diego Union-Tribune

                           February 3, 1996 Saturday

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: SAN DIEGO AND CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire reports

BODY:

   Canji takeover completed Schering-Plough has completed a $54.5 million
acquisition of Canji, a gene therapy company based in San Diego.

   Schering-Plough, based in Madison, N.J., paid Canji shareholders more than 1
million newly issued shares of common stock.

   It also issued participation rights to Canji holders entitling them to
royalties on sales of p53 gene therapy products.

   Canji shareholders approved the merger. SAIC gets contract increment Science
Applications International of San Diego has been awarded the next phase of a
five-year, $30 million research-and-development contract to support the U.S.
Army's Focused Technology Program.

   SAIC won a competition to develop electric-gun and power-supply technologies.
Remec to offer shares San Diego-based Remec has announced an initial public
offering of 3 million shares of common stock at $8 per share.

   Of the shares offered, 2 million are being sold by the company and 1 million
are being sold by existing shareholders.

   Net proceeds of the offering, estimated at $14.1 million, will be used for
expansion of manufacturing capabilities, repayment of debts and general
corporate purposes, including working capital. SDN Bancorp sets acquisition
Shareholders of Liberty National Bank of Huntington Beach approved a definitive
agreement for the company to be acquired by SDN Bancorp of Encinitas.

   SDN's principal shareholder, Dartmouth Capital Group, will pay either $14.80
per share or a per-share value based on 130 percent of Liberty's book value,
whichever is greater at closing.

   The minimum aggregate purchase price would be about $14.5 million.

   The transaction is expected to close in March, subject to regulatory
approval.

   SDN Bancorp is the parent company of San Dieguito National Bank. Vans due
financing for boot line Vans of Orange said its snowboard boot business will be
financed by Ssangyong (USA) for the next year, subject to a final agreement and
approval of the company's board and lenders.

   Vans sells footwear made by foreign manufacturers and by its own plant in
Vista. Cypros signs distribution pact Cypros Pharmaceutical of Carlsbad has
signed an agreement with Syncor International of Chatsworth to distribute
Cypros' GLOFIL-125, an intravenous agent used to measure kidney function.

   Syncor makes and sells nuclear pharmaceuticals. Accounting firm hired Medical
Device Technologies of San Diego has hired the accounting firm of BDO Seidman to
assist the company as it expands in the worldwide marketplace for medical
devices.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007


                             2941 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Plain Dealer Publishing Co.
                         Plain Dealer (Cleveland, Ohio)

                     February 1, 1996 Thursday, FINAL / ALL

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: DAVID B. KERN, PART OF GENE THERAPY PROGRAM

BYLINE: By OLIVERA PERKINS; PLAIN DEALER REPORTER

DATELINE: LAKEWOOD

BODY:

   David B. Kern spent 29 years with Ameritrust, where he rose to the position
of vice president of correspondent banking.

   Mr. Kern, 56, died Jan. 24 at his home in Lakewood following a yearlong bout
with brain cancer. He had been undergoing treatment at University Hospitals,
where Mr. Kern was to have been the first participant in a gene therapy program
aimed at combating the disease.

   After leaving Ameritrust, where he oversaw smaller banks throughout Ohio, Mr.
Kern became vice president of marketing for SCC Resources Inc., a Sandusky
company offering computer services to small banks.

   Mr. Kern joined Ameritrust in the early 1960s, shortly after graduating from
Ohio State University with a bachelor of arts degree in business, and rose
through the ranks.

   Before attending OSU, he had gone to Ohio Wesleyan University, where he was a
member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

   Born and reared in Lakewood, he graduated from Lakewood High School in 1957.

   Mr. Kern had been involved in the gene therapy program for about a year.
Friends and family said he was excited about being the first participant in the
gene therapy program, not only because it might have saved his life, but also
because it might help others in the future.

   A sportsman, Mr. Kern enjoyed spending summers in Marblehead boating on Lake
Erie in his wooden 26-foot Lyman. He also liked to golf.

   Winter sports were appealing as well. He had skated regularly at Winterhurst
Ice Rink in Lakewood since he was a boy. Skiing was another cold-weather
activity he enjoyed.

   Survivors include sons, Douglas B. and Kenneth D.; daughter, Laura; three
grandchildren; and his parents, Henry and Florence of Lakewood.

   Services will be at 2 p.m. Saturday at Lakewood Congregational Church, 1375
W. Clifton Blvd., Lakewood.

   Arrangements are being handled by Dostal Funeral Services in North Olmsted.

   Memorial contributions may be made to Stein Hospice Society, 1200 Sycamore
Line, Sandusky, Ohio, 44870, or the American Cancer Society, 1148 Euclid Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115.

COLUMN: OBITUARIES

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1996


                             2942 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            January 28, 1996 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Leonard R. Johnson, former senior vice president for Arby's Inc., has
been

BODY:

   named chief financial officer with Manhattan Bagel Company Inc. in Eatontown.

    Johnson spent the last 14 years with Arby's, gaining experience in the
finance, franchising, real estate and construction departments.

    Before joining the fast-food restaurant chain, Johnson was an internal
auditor at Royal Crown Companies in Atlanta.

    "With his extensive experience in all areas of finance at one of the
largest franchisees in the quick-service restaurant industry, Leo Johnson
represents a significant addition to our senior executive team," said Jack
Grumet, Manhattan Bagel's chairman and chief executive officer. Johnson earned
an accounting degree from the University of Georgia and is  an MBA candidate at
Florida International University.

    subhed.Pulido named

    Mark A. Pulido has been promoted to chief executive officer with Sandoz
Pharmaceuticals Corp., based in East Hanover.

    Since joining Sandoz in 1990, Pulido served as chairman, president and
chief executive officer of Red Line HealthCare Corp., a Sandoz company. Most
recently he served as chief operating officer. Before his career with Sandoz,
Pulido served as executive vice president of FoxMeyer Drug Co. as well as
various marketing and distribution positions with McKesson Drug Co.

    Pulido earned his degree in pharmacy from the University of Arizona and a
master's degree from the University of Minnesota.

    "Mark has made extremely important contributions during the course of his
six-year career at Sandoz, and we have high expectations for the future,"  said
Alexandre F. Jetzer, the chairman of the board with Sandoz.

    * HANNOCH WEISMAN, Roseland, elected Angela D. Slater as director of the
firm. The firm also announced that Carolyn A. Greene, Karen A. Mignone, Andrea
V. Nassan, Patricia A. Roberts, Stephen F. Roth, Amy M. Stewart and Janet A.
Sullivan have all become associated with the firm.

    * PRINCETON INSURANCE AGENCY, Princeton, named John L. Yoder as vice
president of the agency.

    * MERCEDES - BENZ OF NORTH AMERICA, Montvale, appointed Steven Rossi to
general manager of corporate communications.

    * TRUMP'S CASTLE CASINO RESORT, Atlantic City, appointed Larry Mullin to
vice president of slot operations and marketing.

    * RYKA, Lakewood, appointed Tyrone Coleman to design and production
manager.

    * LEGGETTE, BRASHEARS & GRAHAM INC., Ramsey, named Gary T. Boyer, P.E.,
DEE, a senior environmental engineer. He was previously working with an
environmental consulting firm, most recently as a project manager/technical
specialist.

    * WELDOTRON CORP., Piscataway, appointed Peter Brinkerhoff as chief
operating officer. He is currently with the Polstar Group as president and
chief executive officer.

    * ROTHSCHILD, O'BRIEN & FRANKEL, Lawrenceville, named Mark Z. Segal as a
partner. He was previously with Albert, Levy & Segal.

    * EXPRESS MORTGAGE INC., Little Falls, named Jeffrey Birnberg president.
Birnberg is also vice president of Tappan Zee Capital Corp. investment  company.

    * AMPER, POLITZINER & MATTIA, Edison, have promoted the following to
supervisor: Tamara Haskins, CPA, in the firm's tax department, Paula Young,
CPA, in the accounting and auditing department and James Bannon, also in the
firm's auditing and accounting department.

    * SEAGATE ASSOCIATES INC., Paramus, appointed Peter G. Colford as vice
president. He was previously with Medco Containment Services, most recently as
vice president of sales.

    * ISS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE SYSTEM INC., New York, named John C. Knedlhans
of Freehold, as vice president, specializing in educational and non profit
institutions. He was previously with UNICCO Service Company in Boston, most
recently as corporate vice president.

    * ROBERTS & JOHN ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS, Parsippany, named
Barbara Brown as senior account manager in the public relations department.  She
was previously with AEP Industries, most recently as director of corporate
communications.

    * SEAVIEW ORTHOPAEDIC & MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, Neptune, announced that Robert
Dennis, M.D., F.A.A.O.S., has achieved a board certification as an independent
medical examiner. He is a founding partner of Seaview Orthopaedic.

    * CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC., Princeton, named Raymond L. Bendure, Ph.D.,
vice president of research and development. He was previously with Allergan,
most recently as senior vice president of optical research and development.

    * SCHEIN PHARMACEUTICAL INC., Florham Park, named Michael D. Casey as
executive vice president. He was previously with Genetic Therapy Inc., most
recently as president and chief operating officer.

    * BEDERSON & COMPANY, West Orange, named Robert J. Ferrano, CPA, as a
senior accountant and Ernest E. Scerbo as a staff accountant.

    * PERRITT LABORATORIES INC., Hightstown, appointed Scott J. Perritt as
president. He was previously the controller. Dr. Alexander M. Perritt was  named
chief executive officer and chairman of the board.

    * AMERICAN EXCELSIOR COMPANY, Edison, named David Peaslee as branch  manager
of its New Jersey manufacturing and distribution operation.

    * DELTA DENTAL PLAN OF NEW JERSEY, Parsippany, promoted Lori Acker to
director of premium billing. She was most recently the manager of premium
billing.

    * VENTANTONIO & WILDENHAIN, Warren, named Fred J. Howlett of counsel with
the firm. He is currently the Somerset County Freeholder director.

    * DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP, New York, Guy Budinscak was named the new  managing
partner for the New Jersey region and David Christie as the managing  partner in
Stamford, Connecticut.

    * WORRALL COMMUNITY NEWSPAPERS, Union, named Erik J. Kent manager of the
audiotex system, Infosource. Florence Lenaz has been named retail sales  manager
for the Union County display advertising sales department.

    * HULS AMERICA INC., Somerset, appointed Robert M. Pauwels to senior
technical service chemist in its coatings raw materials group. He was
previously with Sika Corp., most recently as a chemist.

    * THE SABINSA CORP., Piscataway, named H. Scott Rosenbush executive vice
president. He was previously with Gallard Schlesinger, most recently as the
sales and market development manager.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2943 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 The Hartford Courant Company
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                       January 26, 1996 Friday, STATEWIDE

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; Pg. B11

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: GRANTS HELP MINORITY STUDENTS PURSUE MEDICAL RESEARCH

BYLINE: FRANCES GRANDY TAYLOR; Courant Staff Writer

BODY:

   Carole Smarth, a fourth-year medical student, is researching ways to treat
brain tumors and cancers through gene therapy. Tim Johnson is studying ways to
improve the diagnosis and treatment of low back pain. Makunda Abdul studied
minority youth and behavior that put them at risk of contracting HIV infections
and sexually transmitted diseases.

   The Yale University students are among 35 recipients of a national fellowship
program for gifted minority medical students. National Medical Fellowships Inc.
provides a mentor and grant money to students to conduct biomedical research.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  sponsors the program and held a symposium in
Wallingford Thursday at which the students presented their findings.

   National Medical Fellowship Inc.  was founded 50 years ago to improve the
quality of health care to communities with inadequate medical service, and to
improve the training and opportunities of minority physicians. The program is
open to African American, Mexican American, Native American and Puerto Rican
medical students with high scholastic achievement.

   Based in New York city, the fellowship program has awarded more than $34
million to 15,000 minority medical students through a variety of programs.

   Bristol-Myers Squibb is a pharmaceutical and health care company that
produces therapies for cardiovascular, metabolic and infectious diseases and
cancer. Because of that work, the company has an interest in the development of
young medical scientists, said Anders Hedberg, director of the Bristol-Myers
Squibb Center for Science Education.  The company has been the sole sponsor of
the research grant program since 1992, at a cost of $400,000 a year.

   Abdul, 25, a third-year medical student at Yale, said the program made it
possible for her to do her research. "It's helped me become more interested in
research. There is a dearth of minorities on the research track," she said. "To
do academic medicine, you have to do research. So if you don't get an exposure
early in your career, you won't think of it as a possibility."

   Abdul, a native of Cranbury, N.J., surveyed 49 girls and 41 boys in New
Haven. Some were in detention centers and at a school for pregnant teens.

   She found that a third of the girls who were pregnant and the boys who were
in detention centers had been sexually abused. Sixty-five percent had had sex
without a condom.

   She also found that sex at an early age, inconsistent use of condoms and
adolescent immaturity were major contributing factors in the prevalence of
infection with the AIDS virus and sexually transmitted disease.

   Smarth, 25, a resident of Queens, N.Y., used a "gene gun" to test the
efficiency of a new method of transferring therapeutic genes to treat brain
tumors. The grant, she said, "gave me an opportunity to explore projects I
wanted to do, and made it financially feasible to spend five months in the lab."

   Johnson, who lives on Long Island and wants to be an orthopedic surgeon,
began his research into low back pain in 1994, and used the grant to help him
continue his work.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996


                             2944 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright 1996 The The Times Mirror Company; Los Angeles
                                     Times

                       All Rights Reserved; Los Angeles Times

                               All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

          January 26, 1996, Friday, Home Edition EC MO DE VW PC LS TM
                                       BK

SECTION: Life & Style; Part E; Page 8; View Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: BOOK REVIEW / FICTION;
A COP TORN BETWEEN THE LAW AND JUSTICE;
CHAIN OF EVIDENCE BY RIDLEY PEARSON; HYPERION; $22.95, 348 PAGES

BYLINE: By BETTYANN KEVLES, SPECIAL TO THE TIMES

BODY:

   Many Americans are outraged with a justice system that releases psychotic sex
offenders who end up repeating their crimes. But few get the chance to "correct"
judicial error and mete out justice, as Walter Zeller does in Ridley Pearson's
novel "Chain of Evidence." A retired forensic specialist from the Hartford,
Conn., police department, Zeller has seen enough sex crimes in his day, and
decides to put a stop to them.

   Caught between revulsion for the crimes of Zeller's victims, and his duty to
protect the law he suspects Zeller has lost sight of, Lt. Joe Dartelli doggedly
pursues the truth.

   "Chain of Evidence" marks Dartelli's first appearance, but presumably not the
last. Pearson, the first American to win the Raymond Chandler Fulbright at
Oxford University, has published eight other novels, four featuring another male
police detective with a female sidekick.

   The formula works here, too. Dartelli is a classically morose, honest cop
whose character is partially explained by the psychological scars he bears from
a nightmarish childhood. Among other horrors, he found sanctuary from his
abusive alcoholic mother in the barrel of an automatic clothes dryer.

   Dartelli is estranged from Ginny, a brilliant hacker who has been caught more
than once in computer breaking and entering. She simply cannot, it seems, go
straight and Dartelli cannot tolerate marriage to a law-breaker.

   Pearson almost immediately complicates Dartelli's emotional life by sending
him into the arms, and bed, of another police officer, Lt. Abigail Lang, a
not-quite-divorced mother of two who has manipulated the police hierarchy to
create a separate, one-woman detail for sex crimes.

   Lang bends departmental rules for Dartelli, all the while urging him to
follow his intuition, no matter where it takes him.

   It takes him mostly to seedy, dangerous, inner-city Hartford. There are also
excursions to wealthy, woodsy suburban Connecticut as well as to Hartford's
insurance megaliths and to Trinity College.

   Pearson begins his tale in August as Dartelli responds to a radio bulletin
that another "flyer" (police lingo for suicides who exit upper-story windows) is
down in front of the not-very-elegant downtown Granada Hotel. It's an
open-and-shut case, except that the body fell head first and a witness saw him
"dive." Dartelli knows that suicides always jump. Using a computer
reconstruction of the incident, Dartelli proves that the victim was pushed.

   The incident reminds him of a similar, earlier episode he had written off as
suicide. That victim, like the new corpse, had a history of sexual offenses.
Dartelli proceeds to expose a series of apparent "suicides" as skillfully
disguised murders of sex offenders.

   Dartelli's suspicion that the killer is a cop, and probably Zeller, is never
secret. The real meat of this thriller lies in Zeller's motive: More than simple
revenge, it involves the high-stakes world of genetic engineering.

   The title "Chain of Evidence" has a double meaning. A chain of evidence is
the name given to the tangible body of clues turned up by the forensic team. But
it is also the double helix of the DNA molecule, illustrated on the book jacket
with a body caught in the familiar spiral.

   Forensic sleuthing is not enough for Pearson, who goes on to introduce hard
science into his plots. "Chain of Evidence" suggests that sex offenders can be
treated with gene therapy. If such a treatment were possible, would it be any
more viable than castration, hormonal treatments or neurosurgery -- all medical
efforts that "work" insofar as they prevent the criminal from repeating the
crime, but are illegal because they constitute "cruel and unusual punishments"?
Could the courts sentence sexual abusers to gene therapy, even though they
cannot, under current laws, require mothers who abuse or kill their children to
have tubal ligations?

   These questions may be heavy for a simple thriller, but since the author
raises them, they cannot be completely dismissed.

   The ethics of genetic engineering notwithstanding, most readers will agree
that the nasty fellows whose corpses Dartelli finds deserve their fate. Some
readers may wonder, as I did, if Dartelli made the right choice in women. But as
such choices are anything but permanent in the milieu of detective fiction, it
is possible we will meet Dartelli in another Hartford adventure with another set
of romantic options.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996


                             2945 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 1996 Boston Herald Inc.
                               The Boston Herald

                     January 23, 1996 Tuesday ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 025

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Genzyme makes move in new direction

BYLINE: By ERIC CONVEY

BODY:

   Branching into a potentially huge new direction for the company, Genzyme
Corp. said yesterday it will work with a British group to develop gene therapies
to fight cancer.

   The Cambridge drug company is a pioneer in the search for an effective gene
treatment for cystic fibrosis. But the agreement with Imperial Cancer Research
Technology Ltd. is its first foray into a new field, said analyst David Stone of
Cowen & Co.

   He summed up the company's work with the English organization as a search by
Genzyme for "some additional applications for technology they already have
in-house."

   Initially, the collaboration will consist of Genzyme funding a staff member
to work with Imperical Cancer Research Technology to find clinical applications
for its discoveries. A spokeswoman said Genzyme's goal is to pump money into
promising research.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996


                             2946 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                             Philadelphia Daily News

                       JANUARY 22, 1996 Monday PM EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: 21 ON THE SPOT

BYLINE: Staff writers Cynthia Burton, Kitty Caparella, Theresa Conroy,, Rose
deWolf, Mark de la Vina, Bernard fernandez, Bill Fleischman,, Ron Goldwyn, Jim
Nolan, Tonya Pendelton, Anthony Twyman and Renee, Lucas Wayne contributed to
this report.

BODY:

   Considering the weather, 1996 has gotten off to a lousy start. And for some
area notables, it might not get much better. They are in the hot seat, with
goals to achieve, images to reshape, decisions to make. They probably can do
what they must, but who knows? They year is young. The challenges are immense.
As we get one step closer to the 21st century, the Daily News presents

    GOVERNMENT
 Carlos Acosta Executive director, Philadelphia Empowerment Zone Why 1996 is
crucial: Acosta has to start showing results after nearly a year of planning for
the $69 million federal effort. Pressure will mount to help revive economically
devastated areas in North and West Philadelphia as President Clinton looks for
success stories to boost his re-election bid.

   Outlook for success: So much depends on the willingness of companies to
relocate to woefully depressed areas. Poor neighborhoods can leverage more funds
for social and economic projects, and another $250 million in tax incentives are
promised to businesses. Will all this cash be enough? Stay tuned.

   Sandra Schultz Newman Pennsylvania Supreme Court Justice Why 1996 is crucial:
Sworn in this month as the state's first woman justice, Newman noted the court's
tattered image and said she was "determined to restore it to its rightful
pedestal." First, she must get her own image up there, after running a campaign
that played heavily on fear of crime and made promises she probably knew she
could not keep.

   Outlook for success: A rough go. Since most people pay little attention to
the high court, she must focus on winning over her all-male colleagues and
impressing judges and lawyers who were turned off by her shrill campaign. How
she writes and reasons her first opinions will count enormously - if she gets
good cases.

   Joan Reeves Commissioner, city Department of Human Services Why 1996 is
crucial: With Newt Gingrich on one side and tax-conscious Mayor Rendell for a
boss on the other, Reeves must absorb budget cuts when demands for child
protective services are rising.

   Outlook for success: Difficult but not impossible. She's a savvy
administrator who can rely on the respect she has won from City Council to
soften any cuts. Besides, even with his drive to reduce taxes, Rendell has
committed himself even more deeply to family issues.

   Jim Sutton President, District Council 33, American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees Why 1996 is crucial: As head of the city's
largest municipal union, he must negotiate a four-year contract with the stingy
Rendell administration. But first he must win re-election: Many members are
grumbling about the give-backs and small raises in the current contract, which
he negotiated in 1992.

   Outlook for success: Depends on how bitter members feel about the '92 pact.
At least four militant candidates eye his seat. While Rendell says city workers
are entitled to a raise, Sutton can't expect him to be generous.

   POLITICS
 Charles Kopp Attorney Why 1996 is crucial: Kopp is a major fund-raiser for U.S.
Sen. Bob Dole, the likely Republican presidential candidate. Dole's people will
lean heavily on Kopp and his counterparts in other states to raise enough money
to counter Clinton and a campaign war chest that has been put at $26 million and
climbing.

   Outlook for success: Better than in 1994, when Kopp backed former Attorney
General Ernie Preate in his ill-fated governor's race. Still, Kopp has to keep
fingers crossed that Dole doesn't flop in some way.

   Happy Fernandez Democratic City Councilwoman
 Franny Rizzo Republican City Councilman Why 1996 is crucial: Both are eyeing
the 1999 mayoral race. Despite Fernandez's vote lead over all at-large
contenders and Rizzo's ability to knock off Joan Specter, they must establish
themselves as serious players quickly and solidly.

   Outlook for success: Difficult but not impossible. Fernandez continues to
confront a tendency by male counterparts to brush her off as too liberal and a
lightweight. She needs to stand out by making an impact with a serious issue.
Rizzo must get out from the shadow of his father - which he played up in the
campaign - and prove he's his own man. Other GOP mayoral hopefuls already are
getting ready to cut him down quickly and early.

   BUSINESS
 Peter Luukko President, CoreStates Complex Why 1996 is crucial: The CoreStates
Center opens for a world hockey championship event in August, and Luukko must
make sure it's ready. He also must book the Center and the Spectrum as much as
possible.

   Outlook for success: New sports ventures like pro soccer and the Flyers'
minor league franchise have given Luukko a good start, but much hustling awaits.
He has to build a solid annual showing before Temple University's Apollo complex
gets up and running.

   Terry Gillen Director of Defense Conversion Philadelphia Industrial
Development Corp. Why 1996 is crucial: Although Gillen left the city Commerce
Department to join the quasi-public PIDC last year, her mission remains
unchanged: find private uses for the 1,120-acre Navy Yard fast for a city
reeling from the loss of 6,000 good-paying jobs.

   Outlook for success: A 50-50 chance, since many firms still aren't aware that
the base can be used for more than shipbuilding and repair. Her success hinges
on Mayor Rendell's ability to persuade out-of-town businesses that the city is
reducing its tax burden.

   Dr. William Nimmons Kelley CEO, University of Pennsylvania Hospital Health
System. Dean of Penn Medical School Why 1996 is crucial: Up for review by a
university committee, the distinguished doc could face fallout of a $30 million
settlement with the federal government over Medicare billing abuses under his
watch, as well as less-than-impressive results of gene therapy research that
cost the hospital a bundle.

   Outlook for success: Kelley brought wild profitability to Penn, but must
maintain revenue and rebuild its reputation. The hard-nosed, capable Kelley
faces an uphill battle as university President Judith Rodin decides whether he's
the right guy to cure what ails Penn.

   Ralph Natale Underworld boss Why 1996 is crucial: The reputed new mob boss is
back on the streets after getting paroled from a prison term for arson,
racketeering and drug dealing and must firm up his control of the New Jersey
faction of the Mafia.

   Outlook for success: Tough to do when you need to lie low. Taking a cue from
from his late mentor Angelo Bruno, Natale is avoiding public appearances with
known convicts lest he get shipped back to prison.

   Peter Strawbridge President, Strawbridge & Clothier Why 1996 is crucial: It's
bad enough that virtually every retailer had a lousy Christmas shopping season,
but the harsh winter weather puts Philadelphia's last family-owned department
store on the ropes when it can least afford it. Strawbridge must decide if the
time has come to seek bankruptcy protection.

   Outlook for success: Grimmer than the winter. The May Co. and Federated
Department Stores already are poised for the kill. May, which bought John
Wanamaker last year, is rumored to be the front-runner.

   Cecilia Yep Director, Philadelphia Chinatown Development Corp. Why 1996 is
crucial: As her quasi-public group marks its 30th anniversary, Yep must nail
down implementation of Chinatown's long-awaited expansion north of Vine Street
by building 51 houses for poor and blue-collar Asian-Americans before it gets
too expensive to carry out.

   Outlook for success: Better now that she seems close to sealing a deal with
the Ridge administration over a parcel of state-owned land needed for the
project. Still, costs are going up as a result of the turf fights and
bureaucratic runaround that she has endured for years.

   SPORTS
 Kobe Bryant High school basketball standout Why 1996 is crucial: This
17-year-old, solid-B Lower Merion High School student is getting tons of
attention for his prowess on the court, and he faces two big decisions: Should
he go to college or go with a multimillion-dollar pro contract? If he opts for
school, where should he enroll?

   Outlook for success: The rumor mill has Bryant going to NBA big bucks, but
high school sports sages think he will go to La Salle University - where his
father, ex-Sixer Joe, is an assistant coach. Regardless, his future seems
golden.

   Lisa Raymond Professional tennis player Why 1996 is crucial: In her third
full year on the Corel Women's Tennis Association Tour, the 22-year-old Wayne
resident must establish herself on the top 10 or lose out on tournament
invitations. She finished last year ranked No. 20 in the world after reaching
finals in San Diego and Chicago.

   Outlook for success: Raymond, who won two NCAA singles titles at the
University of Florida before turning pro, is regarded as one of America's most
talented female players, but she has been inconsistent. She must beat some of
the top players and win a tournament or two.

   David Reid Terrance Cauthen Olympic boxing hopefuls Why 1996 is crucial: The
Atlanta Olympics are coming up, and these fighters can be set for life by making
the U.S. team and winning a gold medal.

   Outlook for success: North Philadelphia's Reid, at 156 pounds, and Trenton's
Terrance Cauthen, at 132, are considered solid shots to make the team. Reid -
moving up in weight class after twice being the nation's top-ranked boxer at 147
pounds - could have the tougher task. But a repeat of 1984, when locals Meldrick
Taylor and Tyrell Biggs won medals, will be hard. Only one American (Oscar de la
Hoya) won gold in 1992, and the competition from Cubans and others will be
fierce.

   ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
 Walter Dallas Artistic director, Freedom Theater Why 1996 is crucial:
Everything the theater has worked for since Dallas came on in 1992 is supposed
to come together. Plays are being presented at the Arts Bank while its home at
1346 N. Broad St. undergoes a $12 million renovation. By the end of '96, Freedom
will have 298 seats instead of 120, directors of marketing and development, a
sales staff, its own scene shop, new offices, and three parking lots. The big
question: Will people come?

   Outlook for success: Pretty good. Dallas modestly says that when he arrived
he saw "something was going right here," but is shy about the fact that Freedom
Theater's reputation has spread under his direction. Denzel Washington dropped
in for a visit and ended up doing a public service announcement.

   Grace Gonglewski Actress Why 1996 is crucial: Must prove she deserved the
"best emerging artist" designation that came with the $10,000 F. Otto Haas award
in the first Barrymore Awards - Philadelphia's version of the Tonys.

   Outlook for success: Far better than the stars of "Showgirls." As a frequent
star at the Arden Theater, where she also teaches acting classes, Gonglewski has
received critical raves for past performances but now has to wow audiences. The
Arden, which must attract big audiences at its new Old City venue, likely will
have similarly big expectations.

   Pete Hoskins Executive director, Philadelphia Zoo Why 1996 is crucial: What a
way to end one year and begin a new one. Hoskins not only has to begin to
rebuild the World of Primates after all 23 animals were lost in the Christmas
Eve fire, but also needs to replace Billy the Rhino, the pachyderm that recently
died.

   Outlook for success: Difficult, given the funding crisis that has resulted
from a drop in attendance and overall revenue crunch that is affecting most
non-profits. His job is especially tough because nearly all the animals involved
were rare.

   The Roots (Below, left to right) Drummer B.R.O. the R.? (Ahmir-Khalib
Thompson), bassist Hub (Leonard Hubbard), rappers Malik B. (Malik Abdul-Basit)
and Black Thought (Tariq Trotter)

   HIP-HOP JAZZ ARTISTS Why 1996 is crucial: They need a quick and successful
sequel to last year's hit "Do You Want More ?!!!??!" Melding free-style rap
improvisation and jazz, the four once kicked for mere coins at 5th and South
streets. They could end up there again if they don't prove themselves the most
successfully executed hip-hop hybrid ever.

   Outlook for success: Considering the group's talent, it's unlikely sophomore
slump will rear its ugly head. Still, no new release is on the horizon, although
one could happen late in 1996.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO (3)
1. Kobe Bryant, high school hoops star, graduates (INQUIRER FILE PHOTO)
2. Joan Reeves, the city's Human Services commissioner, faces lower funding at a
time when demand for child protection is rising (ALEJANDRO A. ALVAREZ, DAILY
NEWS)
3. (Below, left to right) Drummer B.R.O. the R.? (Ahmir-Khalib Thompson),
bassist Hub (Leonard Hubbard), rappers Malik B. (Malik Abdul-Basit) and Black
Thought (Tariq Trotter)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002


                             2947 of 2963 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 1996 Newark Morning Ledger Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)

                            January 21, 1996 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: WARSH GETS NEW POST WITH MWW

BODY:

   Former New Jersey Assemblyman, Jeffrey A. Warsh has been named the new  vice
president of MWW/Strategic Communications Inc.

    In this new position with the East Rutherford company, Warsh will be
responsible for community relations, public affairs and corporate public
relations. He will also be a part of the company's strategic planning and new
business development team.

    Aside from serving two terms in the New Jersey General Assembly and  serving
on various committees, Warsh practiced law with McGlaughlin, Bennett,  Gelson
and Cramer.

    Prior to serving in the assembly, Warsh worked as a district campaign
manager in the re-election of Governor Tom Kean and later joined the
administration as a staff attorney. Warsh earned a Juris Doctor degree from
Emory University School of Law and  a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and
sociology from Franklin and Marshall.

    news.Crawford named

    Prudential Insurance Co. of America has named Thomas W. Crawford to head
its property and casualty insurance business.

    The Newark-based insurer said Crawford will succeed Larry Sundram as
president and chief executive officer of Prudential Property and Casualty Co.,
the unit which sells homeowners and auto insurance to individuals.

    Sundram, who had been the top executive at PRUPAC since Nov. 1994, "will
return to Prudential's marketing operation," the company said.

    Crawford has been president and chief executive officer of Southern
Heritage Insurance Co. in Atlanta, a property and casualty insurer he founded
in 1984. Prior to that he held positions with CNA Insurance Co. and Allstate
Insurance Co.

    * MASON, GRIFFIN & PIERSON, P.C., Princeton, named Douglas H. Hurd as an
associate and Raul "Rudy" Garcia named of counsel with the firm.

    * OPERA FESTIVAL OF NEW JERSEY, Princeton Junction, named Marcia Atcheson
as director of development and Elizabeth Hinckley as director of marketing and
public relations.

    * SMITH BARNEY, Florham Park, named Robert J. Gleason as vice president,
financial consultant. He was previously with Prudential Securities.

    * WILCOX & ASSOCIATES INC., New York, NY, named Peter H. Simpson of Fair
Haven, as managing director.

    * FLEMINGTON NISSAN, Flemington, promoted Michael Kassick to master
technician.

    * THE EXECUTIVES' ASSOCIATIONS OF NEW JERSEY, Maplewood, elected the
following new officers to the board of directors: chairperson Neil Gewirtzman,
the executive vice president of Sheldon Gross Realty Inc.; president Judith
Barbieri, the president of Designer Sign Systems; vice president Leonard M.
Neuss, a partner with Hoffman Carpet; treasurer Loretta deSantis, the  president
of DeSantis Design Center Inc., executive director Karen Duncan, the  president
of Visual Impact Advertising.

    New board members include Ron Coningswood, a senior sales representative
with American Business Communications Services, Mitchell Evans, a partner in
Print Tech and deborah Lerner, vice president and owner of Lerner Duane
Communication Inc.

    * RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP., New York, appointed Steven F. Goldstone to
president, Charles M. Harper has been named the chairperson and chief  executive
officer, H. John Greeniaus and James W. Johnston as vice  chairpersons.

    * MERCEDES - BENZ OF NORTH AMERICA, Montvale, appointed Steven Rossi to
general manager of corporate communications.

    * DIALOGIC CORPORATION, Parsippany, appointed Sam Liss as vice president  of
corporate marketing, Darrayl Cannon as vice president of operations and  John
Landau as vice president of strategic marketing .

    * TRUMP'S CASTLE CASINO RESORT, Atlantic City, appointed Larry Mullin to
vice president of slot operations and marketing.

    * RYKA, Lakewood, appointed Tyrone Coleman to design and production
manager.

    * HANNOCH WEISMAN, Roseland, elected Angela D. Slater as director of the
firm. The corporation has also announced that Carolyn A. Greene, Karen A.
Mignone, Andrea V. Nassan, Patricia A. Roberts, Stephen F. Roth, Amy M.  Stewart
and Janet A. Sullivan have all become associated with the firm.

    * PRINCETON INSURANCE AGENCY, Princeton, named John L. Yoder as vice
president of the agency.

    * LEGGETTE, BRASHEARS & GRAHAM INC., Ramsey, named Gary T. Boyer, P.E.,
DEE, a senior environmental engineer. He was previously working with an
environmental consulting firm, most recently as a project manager/technical
specialist.

    * WELDOTRON CORPORATION, Piscataway, appointed Peter Brinkerhoff as chief
operating officer. He is currently with the Polstar Group as president and
chief executive officer.

    * ROTHSCHILD, O'BRIEN & FRANKEL, Lawrenceville, named Mark Z. Segal as a
partner. He was previously with Albert, Levy & Segal.

    * EXPRESS MORTGAGE INC., Little Falls, named Jeffrey Birnberg president.
Birnberg is also vice president of Tappan Zee Capital Corp. investment  company.

    * AMPER, POLITZINER & MATTIA, Edison, promoted the following to  supervisor:
Tamara Haskins, CPA, in the firm's tax department, Paula Young,  CPA, in the
accounting and auditing department and James Bannon, also in the  firm's
auditing and accounting department.

    * SEAGATE ASSOCIATES INC., Paramus, appointed Peter G. Colford as vice
president. He was previously with Medco Containment Services, most recently as
vice president of sales.

    * ISS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE SYSTEM INC., New York, NY, named John C.
Knedlhans of Freehold, as vice president, specializing in educational and non
profit institutions. He was previously with UNICCO Service Company in Boston,
most recently as corporate vice president.

    * ROBERTS & JOHN ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS, Parsippany, named
Barbara Brown as senior account manager in the public relations department.  She
was previously with AEP Industries, most recently as director of corporate
communications.

    * SEAVIEW ORTHOPAEDIC & MEDICAL ASSOCIATES, Neptune, announced that Robert
Dennis, M.D., F.A.A.O.S., has achieved a board certification as an independent
medical examiner. He is a founding partner of Seaview Orthopaedic.

    * CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC., Princeton, named Raymond L. Bendure, Ph.D.,
vice president of research and development. He was previously with Allergan,
most recently as senior vice president of optical research and development.

    * SCHEIN PHARMACEUTICAL INC., Florham Park, named Michael D. Casey as
executive vice president. He was previously with Genetic Therapy Inc., most
recently as president and chief operating officer.

    * BEDERSON & COMPANY, West Orange, named Robert J. Ferrano, CPA, as a
senior accountant and Ernest E. Scerbo as a staff accountant.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007


                             2948 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                   January 17, 1996, Wednesday, City Edition

SECTION: ECONOMY; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: A joint venture;
Koch, Fisher build lives, firms together;
Emerging Business: Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By Joann Muller, Globe Staff

BODY:

    Jim Koch was frustrated. His Boston Beer Co. had grown beyond the start-up
phase and he knew that to secure public financing, he needed to hire a top-notch
professional management team.

   But a four-month search, even with help from an executive search firm, hadn't
unearthed the right person to run day-to-day brewery operations. There were some
good candidates, but Koch wasn't satisfied.

   He unloaded his concerns over dinner one night with a trusted confidante and
fellow entrepreneur, Cynthia Fisher, who listened patiently while mentally
flipping through her Rolodex. By the end of the meal, she had come up with three
names.

   Two of them were finalists for the job. One, Martin Roper, a former Harvard
MBA classmate of Fisher, was perfect. Koch hired him as vice president of
operations in September 1994.

   "He's a star," Koch said. "I couldn't have gotten him without Cynthia's
intervention."

   Such networking is common among up-and-coming executives, who often share
ideas and resources with those they know are confronting the same issues.

   Rarely, however, do CEOs share the same bed.

   Married just two years ago, Koch and Fisher are building a life together at
the same time they're trying to shepherd young companies through difficult
growth spurts.

   Koch's microbrewery, maker of the Sam Adams line of specialty beers,
completed a $ 75 million initial public offering last November. The company's
stock exploded on takeoff, rising from the IPO price of $ 20 a share, to a high
of $ 32 1/2, before settling down to a price in the low $ 20s.

   Fisher's biomedical firm, ViaCord Inc., specializes in the collection and
processing of blood cells from infant umbilical cords. These cells, the building
blocks of the child's immune system, are frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored
for possible future use in bone marrow transplants and gene therapies to fight
rare childhood diseases.

   The daughter of a successful Pennsylvania entrepreneur who had about 20
different businesses, Fisher invested $ 1.5 million of her own money during the
company's first 2 1/2 years. The funds came from the sale of her family's
manufactured home building business, a tractor-trailer leasing company and part
ownership in a small newspaper in Harrisburg, Pa. But to take ViaCord beyond the
start-up phase, Fisher this year plans to seek $ 6 million in venture capital.

   Meanwhile, the couple has embarked on their first joint venture; they are
expecting a baby in May.

   The demands of running two growing businesses can be taxing enough on a
couple's personal life. Adding a baby to the mix will surely crank up the
stress.

   But Fisher, 35, and Koch, 46, shrug off the notion, saying they'll manage as
long as they remain organized and flexible.

   "You do your best to achieve balance," explains Fisher, a former marketing
executive with IBM and the blood bank division of Haemonetics Corp. Like her
husband, she puts in long work hours and travels often.

   "Balance is really in chapters. And we just happen to be in chapters of our
lives that are very dynamic right now."

   Introduced by mutual friends, both Koch and Fisher are high-energy people who
crave adventure. An avid athlete, she had to use a cane on their first date,
after undergoing surgery to repair knees that were shattered during a game of
Ultimate Frisbee.

   They're both mountain climbers, having conquered some of the highest peaks in
the world. She reached an 18,500-foot peak on Mt. Everest in Nepal and he
climbed 22,800-foot Mt. Acongagua in Argentina. When Koch proposed to Fisher, it
was in dramatic fashion: on the summit of 13,800-foot Grand Teton during a
blinding blizzard in the middle of July.

   They were married on New Year's Day 1994 in Florida, toasting the union with
a special brew Koch called "Wedlock Bock."

   He described it as "blonde, with a great body, a good head on top, spicy and
complex" - like his wife. He brewed six kegs for the occasion; only three
six-packs remain.

   Two years into their marriage, Koch and Fisher still act like newlyweds:
stealing glances, holding hands and giggling over remarks loaded with sexual
innuendo.

   But their passion for each other is matched by the zeal each has for
business.

   "Beer is my life," said Koch, a sixth generation brewmaster who ran a beer
distribution company before launching Boston Beer Co. in 1984. "It's part of my
body at this point."

   Likewise, Fisher becomes almost evangelical when she talks about the
possibility of using umbilical cords to provide families with biological
insurance that might save children's lives.

   With such single-mindedness about their work, finding time to spend together
is a challenge.

   Both have to travel frequently on business, but they try to cram as much work
as possible into a single day by scheduling early morning or late-night flights.

   "You're tired the next day, but at least you're home, together," said Fisher.

   And they've made an art of coordinating their schedules.

   "We try to look three months in advance," Fisher said. Thursdays and Fridays
are usually travel days, and one night a week is reserved as "date night." Then
there are Koch's teen-age children from a marriage that ended more than a decade
ago, who spend Wednesday nights and every other weekend with them. Those times
are reserved for family.

   "We put everybody on a big calendar, and try to meet every six weeks over a
cup of coffee," she said.

   The fax lines between Fisher's Back Bay office and Koch's office three blocks
away carry copies of their appointment calendars so they can try to book
out-of-town trips for the same days.

   Occasionally, they even end up in the same city.

   "It's weird, when you're kind of in a business mode and you realize, 'Wow -
we're sharing a hair dryer,' " Fisher said.

   When they're not out of town, they often steal out for lunch or dinner, and
then return to their separate offices to do more work.

   "We understand the demands the other has, and it's OK," Fisher said.

   Among the most precious moments of the day are the 15 to 20 minutes they
spend in the car commuting to and from their Newton Corner home each day.

   That's when they often talk over business problems and try to counsel one
another.

   "It's nice to have someone you can confide in, who knows the issues, but
doesn't have an agenda," Fisher said. "It's nice to have that sounding board."

   "Starting your own business is a roller coaster," added Koch, who sees his
wife coping with many of the same issues he faced when Boston Beer was still in
its infancy.

   "There are a lot of feelings you go through that are very intense. It can be
lonely."

   Although their companies are at different stages of development - Boston Beer
is more than 11 years old now, while ViaCord is just getting off the ground -
Koch said both he and his wife are inventing new industries.

   "Being an entrepreneur, especially when you have to start an industry, is a
very involving and demanding task," Koch said. "It's very gratifying to have
somebody in your life who not only understands it, but lives it. You don't know
what this is like until you've lived it."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, 1. GLOBE STAFF PHOTO/TOM HERDE / Jim Koch's and Cynthia Fisher's
passion for each other is matched by the zeal each has for business.  2. GLOBE
STAFF PHOTO/TOM HERDE / Cynthia Fisher and Jim Koch are embarking on their first
joint venture - they are expecting a baby in May.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1996


                             2949 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    January 16, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Human Genome expects $ 25 million from British firm; Payment would be
final installment in licensing deal with SmithKline; Biotechnology

BYLINE: Mark Guidera, SUN STAFF

BODY:


   Human Genome Sciences, the Rockville company developing a library about human
genes and how that information can be used to create new medical therapies, says
it expects to get a $ 25 million payment from British pharmaceutical giant
SmithKline Beecham PLC as a result of meeting a milestone for mapping genes.

   The payment, which first must be approved by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, is the last one due under a 1993 licensing deal between the two
companies.

   SmithKline Beecham, which has already paid Human Genome about $ 100 million
under the licensing deal, hopes to develop and market therapeutic vaccine and
diagnostic products from the human gene database developed by the young
Rockville firm. SmithKline retains exclusive rights to develop products from the
data for the next five years. Human Genome has kept the rights to use the human
gene information to develop gene therapies and other products.

   Dr. William A. Haseltine, chief executive officer for Human Genome, said the
company actually met the final research milestone almost six months ago.

   "This is a good measure, I think, of our programs that we were able to meet
the milestone on target," said Dr. Haseltine. "We're very proud that we've been
able to meet some very stringent research requirements."

   Neither company would disclose specifics of the research milestone, but it
entailed Human Genome's significantly expanding its data bank of human genes.
The company is aiming to identify the estimated 100,000 genes found in every
human cell. As of April 1994, Human Genome had found 45,000 genes.

   Dr. Haseltine said the recent milestone was significant because the research
not only added to the data bank but also showed that certain proteins -- which
get their roles assigned by genes -- had potential commercial uses.

   Under terms of the agreement, about $ 12.3 million of SmithKline's payment
will be in the form of a stock purchase, raising its equity position in Human
Genome to more than 10 percent.

   The rest of the milestone payment will be received as revenue.

   Since striking the deal in 1993, SmithKline has been Human Genome's major
source of revenue. The company has not yet developed any products from its
research findings.

   Human Genome Sciences stock, which has seen a 152 percent increase since last
January, closed yesterday at $ 34.50 per share, down $ 1.50.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1996


                             2950 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright 1996 The Chronicle Publishing Co.
                          The San Francisco Chronicle



                   JANUARY 13, 1996, SATURDAY, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: UCSF, Stanford Med Schools Get $ 7.4 Million From Hughes Center

BODY:

    The Howard Hughes Medical Institute announced Thursday that it has awarded $
7.4 million to finance major scientific projects at the University of California
at San Francisco and at Stanford University Medical Center.

   The four-year grants are part of an $ 80-million fund that the institute is
distributing to 30 medical schools across the country. The purpose is to offset
declining federal grants for young scientists conducting important biomedical
research, officials said.

   At UCSF, $ 1.8 million of its $ 4 million grant will support gene therapy
research and projects to create genetically engineered mice as models for human
genetic diseases, said Dr. Haile Debas, dean of the medical school.

   Another $ 960,000 of the Hughes grant will provide startup financing for a
dozen new UCSF faculty members to begin research projects.

   In addition, $ 1.2 million will be used to renovate research laboratories and
to buy specialized equipment for younger researchers, Debas said.

   Stanford's medical school dean, Dr. Eugene Bauer, said $ 2.5 million of his
school's $ 3.4 million grant will go to support the research of junior faculty
members and to recruit new scientists.

   The remaining $ 900,000 will support projects -- similar to the one at UCSF
-- to develop new strains of ''transgenic'' mice for disease research.

   The institute in Bethesda, Md., was created from the estate of Howard Hughes,
the reclusive aviation pioneer and businessman. It disburses some $ 320 million
a year in grants for medical research.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996


                             2951 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 The Baltimore Sun Company
                               The Baltimore Sun

                    January 9, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 8C, BUSINESS DIGEST

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Dr. Culver to head gene research at Oncor's subsidiary

SOURCE: From staff and wire reports

BODY:


   Oncor, Inc., a Gaithersburg based biotechnology company, said yesterday that
it has named Dr. Kenneth W. Culver as director of gene therapy research and
clinical affairs for OncorPharm, a subsidiary.

   Dr. Culver, along with two other researchers at the National Institutes of
Health in Bethesda, pioneered in the first use of gene therapy for treatment of
an inherited immune deficiency in humans. Also he has worked on developing a
gene therapy treatment for brain cancer.

   In his position at OncorPharm, Dr. Culver will design pharmaceutical
compounds to stimulate human tissue cells to correct errors in their genetic
code. He also will prepare presentations for gene therapy products for
government regulators considering market approvals.

Times Mirror Co. lowers earnings by 17 a share

   The Times Mirror Co. said yesterday that fourth quarter 1995 earnings will be
lowered by $ 18 million, or 17 cents a share, because of the cost of buying back
shares.

   Analysts expect the company, the parent of the Baltimore Sun Co., publisher
of The Sun, to earn 79 cents a share, according to 18 analysts surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research.

   Despite the fourth-quarter earnings drop, earnings will improve from the
first quarter this year through the first quarter of 1998 because Times Mirror
won't have to pay dividends on the repurchased shares, the company said.

   The Los Angeles-based company said it had completed the tender offer of
3,467,901 shares of its Series B preferred stock at $ 26.125 a share. The Dutch
auction tender offer expired Dec. 27, 1995.

   The charge reflects the cash paid in the auction and the expenses related to
it, Times Mirror said.

   Times Mirror also publishes the Los Angeles Times, Newsday and other
publications, as well as books and educational products.

Ford plans to offer incentives to spur lagging car sales

   Ford Motor Co. said it plans to unveil a new round of price incentives today
to spur sales -- a move analysts said could hurt the automaker's profit in the
final quarter of 1995 and in 1996.

   "We will have incentives," Ross Roberts, Ford vice president and general
manager of the Ford division, said after a speech in Detroit yesterday. "We have
to make sure our dealers are competitive."

   Mr. Roberts declined to say if the No. 2 automaker will attach incentives to
the new Taurus and Sable models, whose sales have been slower than expected.

   Ford generally avoided rebates and other incentives in 1995, Mr. Roberts
said. But he said Ford needs to remain competitive with other automakers, who
have used rebates and generous lease deals to compensate for too much production
capacity, particularly of cars.

GE, Boeing won't confirm $ 5 billion plane order

   General Electric Co. and Boeing Co. declined to comment yesterday on a report
that GE's leasing unit was close to a purchase of about $ 5 billion in aircraft
from Boeing and Airbus Industrie.

   The Wall Street Journal reported that GE Capital Services would order 60
planes worth more than $ 3 billion from Boeing and at least 40 smaller jets
worth $ 1.7 billion from Airbus.

   "That is highly speculative, and we do not comment on speculation or rumor,"
said John Oliver, a spokesman for GE Capital.

   A Boeing spokesman also declined comment, although he said the manufacturer
has been in talks with the GE subsidiary.

ADFlex Solutions acquires British circuit maker

   ADFlex Solutions Inc., a maker of flexible connective circuits used in small
electronics products, said yesterday it acquired the British-based division of
Xyratex Ltd. for $ 56 million in cash, debt and stock.

   The division also makes the circuits, called flexible interconnects, which
can be squeezed into products such as cellular phones, camcorders and portable
CD players. It had revenues of about $ 72 million in 1995.

   San Jose, Calif.-based Xyratex, which makes disk drives, data storage systems
and communications systems, will also acquire a stake in ADFlex, it said.

   ADFlex, based in Chandler, Ariz., had estimated revenues of $ 100 million in
1995.

Nationsbank vice chairman to take early retirement

   James Thompson, vice chairman of NationsBank Corp. and head of its global
finance businesses, said yesterday that he plans to retire at the end of the
month.

   "For about a year, I have been considering the possibility of early
retirement," Mr. Thompson said in a statement. "I think the best time for me to
do that is now.'"

   Mr. Thompson joined NationsBank predecessor NCNB in May 1963 as a management
trainee. He became vice chairman in 1985.

SEC general counsel to head Salomon's internal audits

   Salomon Inc. yesterday said it tapped the general counsel of the Securities
and Exchange Commission to head up the big trading firm's internal auditing
department.

   Simon Lorne will oversee Salomon's efforts to control financial risks, making
sure proper company procedures are in place and anticipating future regulatory
rules. He has been general counsel of the nation's securities watchdog agency
since 1993.

   Mr. Lorne, 49, becomes Salomon's internal audit director next Monday. He
replaces Kenneth Marshall, 53, who was promoted to Salomon's chief
administrative officer in November.

Mass. Mutual health unit sold to Wellpoint for $ 380 million

   Wellpoint Health Networks Inc., rebounding from a recent failure to acquire a
major managed health care business, said yesterday that it agreed to buy the
health insurance unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. for about $ 380
million in cash.

   The acquisition of Massachusetts Mutual's Group Life and Health unit would
make Wellpoint the second-largest publicly held managed health care company in
the U.S., with 4 million members, Wellpoint said from its headquarters in
Woodland Hills, Calif. It currently serves 2.8 million members. United
Healthcare Corp., based in Minnetonka, Minn., is the largest managed-care
company.

HCC Insurance agrees to buy management firm

   HCC Insurance Holdings Inc. said yesterday that it agreed to buy LDG
Management, an insurance underwriting management company, in a stock transaction
worth $ 92.18 million.

   Wakefield, Mass.-based LDG had 1995 revenue of about $ 27 million, mainly
from management fees. Top officials will retain their posts at the company,
which represents life, accident and health insurers.

   LDG's overseas operations in London will help HCC's overseas expansion
efforts, the company said.

   HCC, a Houston-based property and casualty insurer, had revenue of $ 59.9
million in 1994. The acquisition will have a "positive effect" on HCC's 1996
earnings, the company said in a statement.

PolyGram to buy MCA's half of Gramercy Pictures

   PolyGram NV, intensifying its push to become a major Hollywood film company,
said it will buy out MCA Inc.'s half of their joint venture, Gramercy Pictures,
for undisclosed terms.

   The transaction ends the three-year venture with MCA, the Seagram Co.'s
entertainment unit. It comes at a time when PolyGram is seeking to expand on
other fronts. Last month, PolyGram offered to buy independent film producer
Samuel Goldwyn Co.'s library.

Furniture maker expects 61% rise in 1995 earnings

   Shelby Williams Industries said yesterday it expects its 1995 earnings to
rise 61 percent on lower costs and strong sales of its specialty furniture.

   Shelby Williams said its net income will be about $ 6.7 million, or 76 cents
a share, compared with income from operations of $ 4.3 million, or 47 cents a
share, in 1994.

   Sales for the year are expected to rise 5 percent to $ 167 million from $ 159
million.

TYPE: COLUMN

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996


                             2952 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 16;   Column 3;   Science Desk

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Transplant: Urgent Step or Step Off the Edge?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

BODY:

   THE transplant last month of bone marrow from a baboon into a 38-year-old man
who is dying of AIDS has again raised the old question of whether desperate
times call for desperate remedies.

   At stake is the tension between dying patients' calls for anything that might
help and scientists' caution that the proper laboratory experiments be done. The
patient, Jeff Getty, and his doctors hope that the baboon marrow will give him a
new immune system that is impervious to the AIDS virus. The experiment,
championed and substantially paid for by AIDS activists, has become a cause
celebre. But many scientists believe that the experiment has virtually no chance
of succeeding and that it is a naive effort to push science too far too fast.

    And in this case, the drama is tinged with a concern that more than just the
patient's health may be at stake. Since baboons carry viruses that might infect
humans, there is a potential risk that the baboon marrow transplant could
transmit a devastating new disease to humans.

   In interviews and at a meeting of the Food and Drug Administration in July, a
number of scientists said they deeply doubted whether the scientific feasibility
of a baboon-to-human transplant had been established.

   Dr. Suzanne Ildstad of the University of Pittsburgh, the principal
researcher, first proposed the baboon marrow experiment about three years ago,
applying to the Institutional Review Board at the University of Pittsburgh,
which must approve all experiments involving human subjects.

   Dr. Richard L. Simmons, chairman of the department of surgery at the
University of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Ildstad's supervisor, said the board felt
incompetent to review the science behind her proposal and so had asked a
committee of scientists for advice. The scientists, he said, could not reach a
consensus and so "encouraged Dr. Ildstad to seek collaborators elsewhere who
knew more about these issues vis-a-vis AIDS."

   Dr. Ildstad did that, joining a research organization on immune restoration
that was established by Martin Delaney, director of Project Inform, an advocacy
group for people with AIDS. "At our own institution, we have not had the
independence to pursue our vision the way we wanted to," she said.

   In the meantime, she applied for a grant from the National Institutes of
Health to do the baboon marrow experiment, but was turned down. Dr. Stephen
Rose, chief of the genetics and transplantation branch at the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said, "As with any grant, you have to show
enough preliminary evidence to make people believe that it is a good investment
of public money." But, he said, there had been continuing questions about Dr.
Ildstad's work.

   "From what I've seen of the data, I don't see where this warrants going ahead
with a human clinical trial," Dr. Rose said. "I don't see that basic background
work has been completed to my level of comfort."

   For example, Dr. Rose said, a key issue is whether so-called facilitator
cells exist. These are cells that Dr. Ildstad says she has isolated from the
bone marrow of humans and animals that enable transplanted marrow to take up
residence and proliferate. But Dr. Rose said he knew of no other scientists who
had isolated these facilitator cells. Dr. Rose said that the cells Dr. Ildstad
describes are "very strange." He said they have proteins on their surfaces "that
normally don't go together."

   "No one is saying it can't be true, but there is no proof" that the cells
exist, Dr. Rose said.

   "As far as I know, there is no independent confirmation of facilitator cells
by independent investigators," Dr. Rose said. "That is an issue that has come up
over the years with Suzanne's work."

   Dr. David Nathan, a hematologist who is president of the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute in Boston, said, "There's a very healthy skepticism about these
findings."

   Dr. Ildstad said that there was "an art" to isolating the cells, and added
that she had heard that two researchers outside her university had found the
cells, although nothing has yet been published. Dr. Ildstad said it actually
helped her patent application that facilitator cells were so hard to find. "If
it was something so obvious, it couldn't be patented," she said.

   Dr. Mark Feinberg, an immunologist and microbiologist who supervises research
on virology and immunology at the Office of AIDS Research of the National
Institutes of Health, said that speaking for himself, not the institutes, he had
"a lot of concerns" about the basic science behind the baboon marrow transplant.

   First, he said, the baboon marrow has to grow in the patient's bones. Then,
the marrow cells have to mature and develop into disease fighting white blood
cells. To do that, Dr. Feinberg explained, the baboon marrow cells must interact
with the patient's immune system, maturing in the person's thymus and lymphatic
system. "We don't know whether that is possible in a healthy person," Dr.
Feinberg said, much less an AIDS patient whose immune system is severely
damaged.

   Finally, even if the baboon cells matured, they would have to recognize human
cells that are infected with microorganisms. But that means that the baboon
cells would have to respond to complex molecular signals on human cells.

   "That process is very intricate and we don't know whether it could happen"
with baboon cells, Dr. Feinberg said.

   On the other hand, he said, there are experiments that might have given
scientists a bit more confidence that the transplant might succeed. "My point is
that this experiment is being conducted when there is little if any information
that has direct bearing on these issues," Dr. Feinberg said.

   For example, Dr. Ildstad has reported that she transplanted rat bone marrow
cells to mice. She could have seen if those rat cells could fight mouse
infections, Dr. Feinberg said. Asked about Dr. Feinberg's comment, Dr. Ildstad
said she did those experiments -- with a well-known immunologist at St. Jude's
Hospital in Memphis, Dr. Peter Doherty, and that stunning results would soon to
be published.

   But Dr. Doherty expressed surprise on being told that Dr. Ildstad said that
he had demonstrated that rat immune systems functioned in mice to fight mouse
infections. He said the mice with rat immune systems all died when he infected
them with mouse viruses, whereas those with mouse immune systems survived. The
transplanted rat immune systems "didn't seem to work in this experiment," he
said.

   The baboon marrow experiment was reviewed and approved by a Food and Drug
Administration panel in August and by the Institutional Review Board at the
University of California in San Francisco.

   Dr. Philip Noguchi, director of cellular and gene therapies at the Food and
Drug Administration, oversaw the advisory panel that reviewed Dr. Ildstad's
work. He said the agency got involved because Dr. Ildstad, in purifying the
baboon marrow so it was rich in facilitator cells, "used several proprietary
methods to manufacture an F.D.A.-regulated product."

   But the panel's main concern was safety, Dr. Noguchi said. The panel was
worried that viruses from the baboon might set off a new epidemic in the general
population, he explained. And although the group voted without dissent to allow
the experiment to be conducted, Dr. Noguchi said he believed that the baboon
virus issue "is a valid concern."

   Dr. Feinberg, a member of the advisory panel, said he was surprised that the
science was given such short shrift. "I thought we were going to go in there and
talk about the science," he said. But, he added, "The F.D.A.'s feeling was that
they had responsibilities if this presented a risk to the public at large."

   As for the Institutional Review Board, ethicists said its role was to be sure
that patients gave informed consent and were not coerced into taking part in
experiments.

   Dr. Bernard Lo, who is director of medical ethics at the University of
California in San Francisco and who treats AIDS patients there, said that in
general, he would be concerned that institutional review boards "are not able to
deal with these radical kinds of experiments." He said the review boards were
"overworked, they're understaffed and they don't have the time and expertise to
deal with things that are totally different than they've seen before."

   Dr. Lo, who was not a member of the review board that approved Dr. Ildstad's
experiment, said that "we need to stop kidding ourselves" about what the review
boards were able to do. "Scientists have to be willing to say, 'We don't think
this is appropriate,' " Dr. Lo said. "In AIDS, what's happened is that activists
have pushed so hard that scientists are afraid to say, 'Yes, we want to do
something, but this isn't it.' "

   Of course, some scientists argue that being overly cautious can deprive
patients of treatments that despite all odds, can turn out to be cures.

   "You have to start somewhere," Dr. Simmons said. "What animal experiment
needs to be done to prove that all the concerns are not concerns? This is a
problem with every leap forward."

   "I don't think there are really any directly relevant animal experiments that
could be done," said Dr. Paul Volberding, a principal investigator with Dr.
Ildstad and an AIDS researcher at the University of California at San Francisco.

   Mr. Delaney said the critics "should get a life." He added that opposition
"happens every time you come up against the edge" of what is possible. "That's
where we are now -- we're on the edge. Everyone's going to sound off."

   Mr. Delaney's group and Act Up Golden Gate, another advocacy group for people
with AIDS, are the principal financers of the transplant surgery, which the
research said costs about $40,000.

   Dr. Steven Deeks, an AIDS researcher at the University of California in San
Francisco who performed the bone marrow transplant, said, "It depends on your
own perspective how rapidly you want to push a field."

   "We have been accused of being desperate, and to some extent we are," he
said. "We're seeing people die every day and the therapies that are currently
available and those that are predicted to be available over the next several
years aren't going to substantially slow that down."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996


                             2953 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Transplant: Urgent Step or Step Off the Edge?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

BODY:

   THE transplant last month of bone marrow from a baboon into a 38-year-old man
who is dying of AIDS has again raised the old question of whether desperate
times call for desperate remedies.

   At stake is the tension between dying patients' calls for anything that might
help and scientists' caution that the proper laboratory experiments be done. The
patient, Jeff Getty, and his doctors hope that the baboon marrow will give him a
new immune system that is impervious to the AIDS virus. The experiment,
championed and substantially paid for by AIDS activists, has become a cause
celebre. But many scientists believe that the experiment has virtually no chance
of succeeding and that it is a naive effort to push science too far too fast.

    And in this case, the drama is tinged with a concern that more than just the
patient's health may be at stake. Since baboons carry viruses that might infect
humans, there is a potential risk that the baboon marrow transplant could
transmit a devastating new disease to humans.

   In interviews and at a meeting of the Food and Drug Administration in July, a
number of scientists said they deeply doubted whether the scientific feasibility
of a baboon-to-human transplant had been established.

   Dr. Suzanne Ildstad of the University of Pittsburgh, the principal
researcher, first proposed the baboon marrow experiment about three years ago,
applying to the Institutional Review Board at the University of Pittsburgh,
which must approve all experiments involving human subjects.

   Dr. Richard L. Simmons, chairman of the department of surgery at the
University of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Ildstad's supervisor, said the board felt
incompetent to review the science behind her proposal and so had asked a
committee of scientists for advice. The scientists, he said, could not reach a
consensus and so "encouraged Dr. Ildstad to seek collaborators elsewhere who
knew more about these issues vis-a-vis AIDS."

   Dr. Ildstad did that, joining a research organization on immune restoration
that was established by Martin Delaney, director of Project Inform, an advocacy
group for people with AIDS. "At our own institution, we have not had the
independence to pursue our vision the way we wanted to," she said.

   In the meantime, she applied for a grant from the National Institutes of
Health to do the baboon marrow experiment, but was turned down. Dr. Stephen
Rose, chief of the genetics and transplantation branch at the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said, "As with any grant, you have to show
enough preliminary evidence to make people believe that it is a good investment
of public money." But, he said, there had been continuing questions about Dr.
Ildstad's work.

   "From what I've seen of the data, I don't see where this warrants going ahead
with a human clinical trial," Dr. Rose said. "I don't see that basic background
work has been completed to my level of comfort."

   For example, Dr. Rose said, a key issue is whether so-called facilitator
cells exist. These are cells that Dr. Ildstad says she has isolated from the
bone marrow of humans and animals that enable transplanted marrow to take up
residence and proliferate. But Dr. Rose said he knew of no other scientists who
had isolated these facilitator cells. Dr. Rose said that the cells Dr. Ildstad
describes are "very strange." He said they have proteins on their surfaces "that
normally don't go together."

   "No one is saying it can't be true, but there is no proof" that the cells
exist, Dr. Rose said.

   "As far as I know, there is no independent confirmation of facilitator cells
by independent investigators," Dr. Rose said. "That is an issue that has come up
over the years with Suzanne's work."

   Dr. David Nathan, a hematologist who is president of the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute in Boston, said, "There's a very healthy skepticism about these
findings."

   Dr. Ildstad said that there was "an art" to isolating the cells, and added
that she had heard that two researchers outside her university had found the
cells, although nothing has yet been published. Dr. Ildstad said it actually
helped her patent application that facilitator cells were so hard to find. "If
it was something so obvious, it couldn't be patented," she said.

   Dr. Mark Feinberg, an immunologist and microbiologist who supervises research
on virology and immunology at the Office of AIDS Research of the National
Institutes of Health, said that speaking for himself, not the institutes, he had
"a lot of concerns" about the basic science behind the baboon marrow transplant.

   First, he said, the baboon marrow has to grow in the patient's bones. Then,
the marrow cells have to mature and develop into disease fighting white blood
cells. To do that, Dr. Feinberg explained, the baboon marrow cells must interact
with the patient's immune system, maturing in the person's thymus and lymphatic
system. "We don't know whether that is possible in a healthy person," Dr.
Feinberg said, much less an AIDS patient whose immune system is severely
damaged.

   Finally, even if the baboon cells matured, they would have to recognize human
cells that are infected with microorganisms. But that means that the baboon
cells would have to respond to complex molecular signals on human cells.

   "That process is very intricate and we don't know whether it could happen"
with baboon cells, Dr. Feinberg said.

   On the other hand, he said, there are experiments that might have given
scientists a bit more confidence that the transplant might succeed. "My point is
that this experiment is being conducted when there is little if any information
that has direct bearing on these issues," Dr. Feinberg said.

   For example, Dr. Ildstad has reported that she transplanted rat bone marrow
cells to mice. She could have seen if those rat cells could fight mouse
infections, Dr. Feinberg said. Asked about Dr. Feinberg's comment, Dr. Ildstad
said she did those experiments -- with a well-known immunologist at St. Jude's
Hospital in Memphis, Dr. Peter Doherty, and that stunning results would soon to
be published.

   But Dr. Doherty expressed surprise on being told that Dr. Ildstad said that
he had demonstrated that rat immune systems functioned in mice to fight mouse
infections. He said the mice with rat immune systems all died when he infected
them with mouse viruses, whereas those with mouse immune systems survived. The
transplanted rat immune systems "didn't seem to work in this experiment," he
said.

   The baboon marrow experiment was reviewed and approved by a Food and Drug
Administration panel in August and by the Institutional Review Board at the
University of California in San Francisco.

   Dr. Philip Noguchi, director of cellular and gene therapies at the Food and
Drug Administration, oversaw the advisory panel that reviewed Dr. Ildstad's
work. He said the agency got involved because Dr. Ildstad, in purifying the
baboon marrow so it was rich in facilitator cells, "used several proprietary
methods to manufacture an F.D.A.-regulated product."

   But the panel's main concern was safety, Dr. Noguchi said. The panel was
worried that viruses from the baboon might set off a new epidemic in the general
population, he explained. And although the group voted without dissent to allow
the experiment to be conducted, Dr. Noguchi said he believed that the baboon
virus issue "is a valid concern."

   Dr. Feinberg, a member of the advisory panel, said he was surprised that the
science was given such short shrift. "I thought we were going to go in there and
talk about the science," he said. But, he added, "The F.D.A.'s feeling was that
they had responsibilities if this presented a risk to the public at large."

   As for the Institutional Review Board, ethicists said its role was to be sure
that patients gave informed consent and were not coerced into taking part in
experiments.

   Dr. Bernard Lo, who is director of medical ethics at the University of
California in San Francisco and who treats AIDS patients there, said that in
general, he would be concerned that institutional review boards "are not able to
deal with these radical kinds of experiments." He said the review boards were
"overworked, they're understaffed and they don't have the time and expertise to
deal with things that are totally different than they've seen before."

   Dr. Lo, who was not a member of the review board that approved Dr. Ildstad's
experiment, said that "we need to stop kidding ourselves" about what the review
boards were able to do. "Scientists have to be willing to say, 'We don't think
this is appropriate,' " Dr. Lo said. "In AIDS, what's happened is that activists
have pushed so hard that scientists are afraid to say, 'Yes, we want to do
something, but this isn't it.' "

   Of course, some scientists argue that being overly cautious can deprive
patients of treatments that despite all odds, can turn out to be cures.

   "You have to start somewhere," Dr. Simmons said. "What animal experiment
needs to be done to prove that all the concerns are not concerns? This is a
problem with every leap forward."

   "I don't think there are really any directly relevant animal experiments that
could be done," said Dr. Paul Volberding, a principal investigator with Dr.
Ildstad and an AIDS researcher at the University of California at San Francisco.

   Mr. Delaney said the critics "should get a life." He added that opposition
"happens every time you come up against the edge" of what is possible. "That's
where we are now -- we're on the edge. Everyone's going to sound off."

   Mr. Delaney's group and Act Up Golden Gate, another advocacy group for people
with AIDS, are the principal financers of the transplant surgery, which the
research said costs about $40,000.

   Dr. Steven Deeks, an AIDS researcher at the University of California in San
Francisco who performed the bone marrow transplant, said, "It depends on your
own perspective how rapidly you want to push a field."

   "We have been accused of being desperate, and to some extent we are," he
said. "We're seeing people die every day and the therapies that are currently
available and those that are predicted to be available over the next several
years aren't going to substantially slow that down."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996


                             2954 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright 1996 Journal Sentinel Inc.
                     Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel (Wisconsin)

                           January 7, 1996 Sunday All

SECTION: Lifestyle Pg. 5

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: CARS WILL AVOID CRASHES
 Far over the horizon, futurists foresee many wonders
 Predictions include a robotic device to push atoms into place making foods with
better tastes, lighter plastics

BYLINE: LINI S. KADABA

SOURCE: Knight-Ridder

BODY:

   Focusing on the year 2000 and beyond, some crystal ball gazers speculate on
the car of the future and trends in medicine.

   Futurist Arthur B. Shostak, professor of sociology at Drexel University, says
tiny, tiny machines will revolutionize fields such as health care.

   Robert Q. Riley, president of a product design business in Scottsdale, Ariz.,
says cars will become safer, anticipating and avoiding crashes.

   Here's a look at some of the forecasts:

   Genetic engineering: As the Human Genome Project continues to unravel the
genetic code that determines each person's individual makeup, gene therapies
will become more commonplace. (The project's goal is to map all 23 pairs of
chromosomes by 2005.)

   "It sort of turns the whole emphasis of health care on its head. Instead of
trying to fix things once they occur, we can use this custom technology to fix
things before they occur," said Andy Hines, staff futurist for the consulting
group Coates & Jarrett in Washington, D.C.

   "I think we'll be able to re-engineer humans," said Clem Bezold, executive
director of the Institute for Alternative Futures.

   Robots: More and more, these gizmos will take care of tasks mundane, messy
and dangerous. Robots will clean up hazardous spills or handle jobs such as
mining.

   Already, Robodoc, a device under development by Integrated Surgical Systems,
can assist in hip replacement surgery.


   The surgeon uses a computer workstation to view 3-D images of the patient's
femur, select an appropriate prosthesis and position the image of the prosthesis
in the femur.

   This data is saved and read by the robot's control computer. Then Robodoc
executes the plan under supervision of a surgeon.

   Another experimental robot, a sort of Robo-Harvester from the Silsoe Research
Institute in England, can extract fragile produce, such as mushrooms, by making
use of a mini-television camera and sensitive suction cups.

   The nano age: Nanomedicine will use very small mechanisms to target problem
spots in our bodies.

   "Nano" is a word from the Greek meaning dwarf.

   For example, a tiny bulldozer of sorts would clear out cholesterol, like so
much rubble, from arteries, making angioplasty obsolete.

   "It is the hottest field in medical frontiers," Shostak said. "Nano is the
third great revolution agriculture, industrial and nano."

   Nanotechnology holds the possibility of allowing us to assemble atoms to
create whatever we want.

   Researchers envision an assembler a very small robotic device that will be
able to push atoms into place, making foods with better tastes, plastics with
lighter weight and increased strength, and computer chips a million times faster
than today's.

   High-tech cars: The urban car will accommodate two people in an
ultra-compact, ultra-light vehicle used primarily for city driving, said Riley.
He also predicted a commuter car with a capacity for three people used primarily
for driving to and from work.

   Cars, probably gasoline-powered for the next decade, also will emphasize
safety technology, including smart air bags that sense weight and position of a
passenger, a blind-zone detector to warn the driver of a vehicle in his or her
blind spot while passing and talking intersections that track traffic flow and
issue warnings.

   Spare body parts: The use of synthetic parts and devices will boom.

   "We can see people becoming more and more synthetic, moving toward a cyborg,
where there's some intelligence inside," Hines said.

   Design your own product: Automated fabrication will allow you to design your
own car, from fender to interior layout. Or, for that matter, almost any other
product.

   This new technology takes an idea, comes up with a design created on a
computer and then produces a 3-D model, or, in the case of the car, the actual
item.

   "It's the beginning of the end of the mass manufacturing economy. We are at
the beginning of the era where it's practical and economical to build things one
at a time," said Marshall Burns, president of Ennex Fabrication Technologies.

   Already, autofab is used to make prototypes and molds, from which multiple
copies can be manufactured, he said.

   It also can be used to make sculptures based on computer designs and to
manufacture custom products, such as automobiles or prostheses, Burns said.

   He speculates that the technology might even be able to fabricate organic
tissue, raising the possibility of cloned cells and replacement body parts.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996


                             2955 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;     Page 1;     Column 2;     Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Down on the Farm, a Donor;
Breeding Pigs That Can Provide Organs for Humans

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

BODY:

   In the United States today, about 3,000 patients die annually waiting for an
organ transplant. Some 100,000 more die each year never having qualified for a
place on the waiting list. But in the near future, victims of organ failure may
have a new alternative: a heart, liver, lung or kidney from a genetically
altered pig.

   Four small biotechnology companies are racing to develop pigs that could
serve as organ donors for humans. Significant medical and technical hurdles
remain, but the progress in recent months by these companies and their academic
collaborators prompts some of their scientists to suggest that the first organ
transplant from a pig to a human could occur within a year. Xenotransplants, as
such cross-species operations are known, could be commonplace a decade from now,
they say.

    But if the rapid progress in xenotransplantation has surprised even its own
practitioners, some scientists view it with concern. An opinion piece in last
month's New England Journal of Medicine called for greater review of the
practice, citing the potential for cross-species disease transmission.

   The proponents of xenotransplants say they are confident this issue can be
dealt with, and note that similar alarms were raised about the first
human-to-human transplants. But they worry that animal-rights or religious
groups opposed to the genetic manipulation of living creatures may raise
emotional and political barriers to progress. So they are proceeding quietly.

   The success of organ transplants between humans has created a steady increase
in demand for organs, but the number of donors has leveled off. About 18,000
organ transplants are performed in the United States each year while 40,000
"qualified" patients wait for donor organs, according to the United Network for
Organ Sharing. Many more never qualify because of age or various conditions.
Specialists estimate that transplants could increase tenfold were enough organs
available.

   The potential for xenotransplants has not been lost on major drug and
medical-device companies. Sandoz Ltd., Baxter Healthcare Inc. and the U.S.
Surgical Corporation have made major investments in the four small companies in
the field, and other corporations are looking for an entry point.

   The companies breed the pigs and raise their offspring in sterile sties that
are a biotechnology equivalent to a Silicon Valley chip maker's "clean room,"
and plan to sell their organs to hospitals. The sale of organs would complement
the companies' existing businesses that sell immune suppressant drugs, blood
products and surgical instruments used for transplant operations.

   With commercial products at least five years away, analysts say that it is
too early for firm estimates of the potential size of the xenotransplant market,
but that it is not hard to extrapolate more than $1 billion in annual sales.
Given an unlimited supply of organs, the current number of transplants would
probably increase to more than 100,000 a year in the United States alone, these
analysts say, and it is not unreasonable to expect the organs to sell for an
average of $10,000 each.

   "The field has moved so rapidly; two years ago everything we know today was
still hypothesis," said John S. Logan, vice president of research and
development for Nextran Inc., a Princeton, N.J., biotechnology company that
Baxter recently acquired. "It is really a race now, and it's up to who is
fastest and smartest."

   Experiments in xenotransplantation dating to the 1960's all involved apes and
monkeys. Perhaps the most notable case involved Baby Fae, the Loma Linda,
Calif., newborn who lived 20 days after receiving a baboon heart in October
1984. Just last month, a baboon's bone marrow was injected into an AIDS patient
in a risky bid to enhance the patient's resistance to AIDS.

   Despite their close relation to humans, though, primates are not ideal organ
donors for several reasons, including their frequent infection by numerous
viruses, their slow reproductive cycle, and the ethical issues raised by the use
of such intelligent beings. Pigs can be bred rapidly and raised free of known
diseases, and they have been slaughtered in service to mankind for millennia.

   But pig tissue is so foreign to the human that an unmodified organ
transplanted to a human would be destroyed in less than an hour, melted by a
group of powerful human immune-system proteins called complement in a process
known as hyper-acute rejection.

   Complement is normally held in check in the body by regulatory proteins that
coat each organ, but while ape proteins are similar enough to cope with the
human complement assault, pig proteins are not.

   A breakthrough came last year when researchers working separately at Nextran
and at Imutran P.L.C. in Cambridge, England, each found a similar method to
breed pigs that produce proteins that regulate human complement. In each case,
human DNA was inserted into fertilized pig eggs, and the resulting swine produce
both human and porcine proteins.

   When hearts from these pigs were transplanted into baboons and small monkeys,
the organs survived far longer than did unmodified tissue. So far the longest
survival time is 63 days, for a monkey treated at Imutran; the median survival
time for these monkeys is 40 days.

   Estimating how soon clinical trials using humans can start from the results
of tests in four-pound monkeys is difficult, but Dr. David White, Imutran's
founder and director, said the experiments so far have shown that hyperacute
rejection can be overcome.

   "What sort of survival data would you expect to see in a monkey before you
would go to a clinical trial? Thirty days? Several years? We have to find a
number between those two," Dr. White said. "I think there is a real probability,
a distinct possibility, that we will achieve that comfort factor within a
12-month period."

   Though success in human-to-human transplants is now measured in years, the
first ones lasted much shorter periods, and this could be true with early
xenotransplants without diminishing their significance. In all likelihood, the
first transplants of pig organs will be temporary, to keep patients alive for
weeks or months while they await a human organ. Researchers at Duke University
have already used unmodified pig livers outside the body as a "bridge" to
sustain patients waiting for a human donor and recently received clearance from
the Food and Drug Administration to use Nextran's genetically altered pig livers
in this way.

   "When xenotransplantation comes in, it will initially be used to rescue
patients, and then to fill in the much larger population who currently aren't
getting organs," said Elliot Leibowitz, the president and chief executive of
Biotransplant Inc. in Cambridge, Mass. The company is working on pig donors and
a technology to increase a recipient's tolerance of the animal's organs.

   The Imutran monkeys did not die of organ rejection, but were put down after
they developed severe gastrointestinal distress. Scientists at other
xenotransplant companies say they suspect the monkeys contracted a virus, one to
which they were more vulnerable because of the large amounts of
immune-suppressant drugs Imutran used. Dr. White does not dispute the
suggestion. And while modern immune suppressants have made human-to-human
transplants commonplace, some scientists think xenotransplants will require new
drugs or strategies.

   "You can increase the doses of immune suppressants and get a xenotransplant
to take, but that's not practical," said David H. Sachs, a professor of surgery
and immunology at Harvard University Medical School as well as the director of
transplantation biology at Massachusetts General Hospital.

   Dr. Sachs's solution is to pre-treat the recipient with a bit of the donor
animal's bone marrow, which makes the recipient's immune system more tolerant of
the donated organ. Using this process in same-species transplants, he has kept
monkeys alive for more than two years with no immune suppressant drugs after the
first 30 days. He is now conducting studies on pig-to-monkey transplants but
thinks some long-term immune suppression will be necessary for xenotransplants
to survive.

   Dr. White of Imutran said the combination of genetically altered pigs and
tolerance could be most powerful. "The nice thing about the pig is you know who
the donor is going to be weeks or months before the transplant," he said. "It's
not like you're waiting for someone to fall off his motorcycle."
 Sandoz Pharma, the world's leading producer of immune-suppressant drugs, is a
major investor in both Imutran and Biotransplant, which is commercializing Dr.
Sachs's work, and has the rights to both companies' projects.

   Daniel Vasella, president of Sandoz Pharma, said the Swiss company expects to
invest $1 billion in xenotransplant technology in the next several years.

   Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. in New Haven, the fourth company working in
xenotransplants, recently sold a minority stake to U.S. Surgical.

   Despite the advances, xenotransplant experts expect human organs to remain
the preferred choice for patients. One reason is the unquantifiable risk of
disease.

   To be sure, human donors are subject to disease, and recipients of those
organs risk infection by any number of viruses. And while humans can contract
diseases from pigs, pigs raised in the sterile environs of Nextran, Imutran or
Harvard will be free of at least all known diseases.

   That is not enough to mollify critics, who note that the greatest risk is
from an unknown disease, or some agent that, though benign in pigs, turns
virulent in humans.

   "There is a risk here, and it's similar to the risk with human organs, but
with animal organs we know less," said Philip Noguchi, director of cellular and
gene therapy at the F.D.A.'s Center for Biologics, and an author of the opinion
piece in The New England Journal of Medicine. He has suggested the creation of a
national registry to track diseases that might crop up in transplant patients.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nextran Inc., a Princeton, N.J., biotechnology company, owns a
farm in Albany, Ohio, where it raises pigs, like the one at top, in sterile
sties. Nextran is trying to breed pigs whose organs would be accepted by a human
host. (Photographs by Gary Truman for The New York Times)

Chart: "Bound for the Surgical Suite"

    With a potential market of $1 billion a year, four biotechology companies
are trying to breed pigs that could serve as organ donors for humans.
Researchers in such cross-species operations, known as xenotransplants, say pigs
may be the ideal source for organs, because they can be bred rapidly and raised
free of known kiseases. As the data on American transplants in 1994 show, there
are severe shortages of human organs available for transplant.

    Chart lists number of operations performed, number of patients on waiting
lists, and number of patients who died waiting for kidney, lung, heart, and
liver transplants in 1994. (Sources: Steve Gilbert for the University of
Washington PRess; United Network for Organ Sharing)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996


                             2956 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D;     Page 19;     Column 1;     National Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Find Out Why Bacteria May Turn Deadly for People With
Cystic Fibrosis

BODY:

   People with cystic fibrosis, who die in great numbers from lung infections,
may be susceptible to the worst of those infections because of their cells'
inability to swallow disease organisms.

   In a study published today in the journal Science, a research team from the
Harvard Medical School and the University of North Carolina reported exposing
laboratory cultures of lung cells from healthy people and from those with cystic
fibrosis to a bacterium called Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

    Infections with this bacterium often turn chronic in patients with cystic
fibrosis and ultimately become the leading cause of their death. But the same
bacterium causes only minor illnesses in healthy people, and researchers at
various institutions have been trying to find out why.

   The Harvard and North Carolina researchers found that healthy cells actually
ingest Pseudomonas bacteria. What happens next is not known for sure, said the
head of the research team, Dr. Gerald Pier of Harvard, though he suspects that
the cells are sloughed off and coughed out, thus allowing the body to rid itself
of the bacteria.

   The course of events was different in cells from cystic fibrosis patients.
Those cells could not ingest Pseudomonas bacteria, the team reported. Dr. Pier
said the bacteria had never entered the cells. He said he believed that was why
Pseudomonas bacteria permanently colonized the airways of people with cystic
fibrosis, thriving in the thick mucus that is the hallmark of the disease.

   Gradually, strains resistant to antibiotics emerge, and bacterial toxins
conspire with the body's own inflammatory reaction to ravage the patient's
lungs.

   Although the treatment of cystic fibrosis has improved, the average life span
of patients is still only 30 years, and for some, lung transplants offer the
only hope of survival. Some 30,000 Americans have the disease.

   The inability of cystic fibrosis cells to ingest Pseudomonas, although they
can swallow other types of bacteria, appears directly linked to the genetic
defect that causes most cases of cystic fibrosis, Dr. Pier's group reported.

   That mutation, first identified by other researchers in 1989, causes errors
in the production of a protein on the surface of a cell, CFTR, or cystic
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator. By altering conditions in their
cells' cultures to change levels of the protein, Dr. Pier and his colleagues
showed that CFTR is the key to a cell's ability to ingest Pseudomonas. When CFTR
is lacking, as it is in cystic fibrosis patients, the cells cannot swallow the
bacteria.

   The connection to CFTR raises the hope that gene therapy for cystic fibrosis
could eventually reduce the death rate from Pseudomonas infections.

   Dr. Pier said his group's finding was a reversal of conventional ideas about
the nature of infection. It has been thought that it was important to keep
bacteria out of human cells.

   "We thought it was a host defense mechanism," Dr. Pier said. But the new work
suggests that in some cases the inability of a cell to ingest bacteria "may be
how the disease occurs." The same mechanism may control the development of
bladder infections, he said.

   Dr. Alice Prince, who has been studying the connection between Pseudomonas
and cystic fibrosis at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia
University, urged caution in interpreting the study.

   "The sloughing of those cells is a novel idea," Dr. Prince said. "It's never
been reported by anyone else, and there's no precedent for it." Moreover, the
results of work done on cultured cells may differ from what actually occurs in
the body, she said.

   Studies published by Dr. Prince's research group have suggested a different
link between Pseudomonas infections and cystic fibrosis. She said her work
showed that cystic fibrosis patients had receptors on the surface of their cells
that allowed the bacteria to bind to those cells, which initiated a highly
destructive inflammation.

   Dr. Stanley Falkow, an expert on cystic fibrosis and infectious disease at
Stanford University Medical Center, said that the hypotheses offered by Dr.
Pier's group were "consistent with the fact that Pseudomonas does not cause
disease in normal individuals."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996


                             2957 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       JANUARY 5, 1996 Friday SF EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS NEWS IN BRIEF

BODY:

   IN THE REGION
 AMERICAN WATER WORKS HIKES DIVIDEND American Water Works Co., the nation's
largest investor-owned water utility, increased its quarterly common stock
dividend 9.4 percent, from 32 cents to 35 cents a share. The Voorhees company's
new dividend is payable Feb. 15 to shareholders of record on Jan. 26. The
increase comes after American Water's stock has enjoyed a healthy spurt in the
last month, from $32.25 on Dec. 1 to $38.875 on Dec. 29. NYSE close: $37.875,
down 12.5 cents.

    IBS DECLARES VICTORY OVER DISSIDENT GROUP * IBS Financial Corp.'s management
declared victory over a dissident shareholders group. Executives of the company,
which operates Inter-Boro Savings & Loan Association, said the dissidents'
attempt to oust two directors from IBS's board had failed. More than two-thirds
of the Cherry Hill company's stockholders backed incumbent directors Francis X.
Lorbecki Jr. and Albert D. Stiles Jr. for reelection at the company's annual
meeting last month, IBS said.

   2-FOR-1 COMMON STOCK SPLIT FOR CHECKPOINT Checkpoint Systems Inc., Thorofare,
announced a 2-for-1 split of its common stock. The new shares will be payable on
Feb. 22 to shareholders of record on Jan. 18. The company, a manufacturer of
security systems for retail stores, currently has 14.2 million shares
outstanding. NYSE close: $38.75, up 50 cents.

   RPR GETS NON-EXCLUSIVE LICENSE FROM ENZON * Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc.,
Collegeville, and Enzon Inc., Piscataway, N.J., said Enzon had granted RPR a
worldwide, non-exclusive license to use a technology for protein production. RPR
Gencell, the cell and gene therapy division of RPR, will pay Enzon a $1 million
license fee, milestone payments and royalties based upon product sales.

   COMPOST AMERICA UNIT GETS OK TO BUILD PLANT * Compost America Holding Co.,
Doylestown, said its subsidiary, Newark Recycling & Composting Co., had received
all necessary permits to build a $60 million sewage recycling plant near Newark,
N.J., International Airport. The 200,000-square-foot plant, to begin operation
in mid-1997, will generate an estimated $20 million in revenues annually.

   RESOURCE AMERICA WILL PAY SPECIAL DIVIDEND * Resource America Inc. said it
would pay a special stock dividend of six common shares for each 100 shares held
by stockholders on Jan. 17. The dividend, which will be distributed Jan. 31,
will boost the number of outstanding shares to 705,000 from 665,000. Resource
America is a Philadelphia oil and gas exploration company. Nasdaq close: $22.75,
down $1.25.

   TASTY SALES FOR PENNSYLVANIA RESTAURANTS * Pennsylvania restaurants showed
plumper revenues and profits in 1994, according to a study released by
Restaurant Advisory Services, a Wayne consulting firm. Profits rose 15.3 percent
from 1993, while sales edged up 2.4 percent.

   BOEING TO END UNION'S CONTRACT EXTENSION Boeing Co. has told 2,100 production
workers at its Ridley Township plant it will terminate their contract extension
on Jan. 12. The workers, members of the United Automobile, Aerospace &
Agricultural Implement Workers of America, have been working on a temporary
extension since their contract expired in October. The company is continuing to
meet with union negotiators, a spokeswoman said. The Helicopter Division employs
6,100 workers at the Delaware County plant.

   ZENECA ACQUIRES RIGHTS FOR SULAR * Zeneca Inc., Wilmington, said it had
acquired the U.S. rights for Sular extended-release tablets, a new calcium
channel blocker, from Bayer AG, the German company. Terms weren't disclosed.
Zeneca said it would launch the hypertension product this month.

   AD EXECUTIVE LEAVING PHILA. NEWSPAPERS * Philadelphia Newspapers Inc. said
its senior vice president for advertising, Robert D. McCray, 38, decided for
personal reasons to leave the company, which publishes The Inquirer and
Philadelphia Daily News. On Jan. 15, he will become an advertising marketing
consultant for PNI's parent, Knight-Ridder Inc., of Miami. McCray joined PNI in
February 1995.

   ELSEWHERE
 SHOULD U.S. OFFER INCENTIVES TO PRESERVE JOBS? Labor Secretary Robert Reich, in
a newspaper opinion column, said U.S. companies should receive incentives,
possibly in the form of a reduction or elimination of taxes, to preserve jobs.
"If we want profitable companies to keep more employees on their payrolls . . .
to upgrade their skills, to share more of their profits with them and to remain
in their communities, we have to give them an economic reason to do so," the
column in the New York Times said. Reich said AT&T's plan to lay off 40,000
employees, announced Tuesday, and other corporate restructurings raise questions
about the private sector's ability to take on more responsibility for America's
economic well-being. He also suggested that the benefits of incorporation for a
business should be reserved for companies that demonstrate a responsibility to
their workforces.

   TWICE AS MANY JOB CUTS ANNOUNCED LAST MONTH * U.S. companies in December
announced twice as many job cuts as they did in December 1994, Challenger, Gray
& Christmas Inc., a Chicago employment consulting firm, said. It said employers
announced the elimination of 55,237 jobs in December, more than double the
27,516 in December 1994 and the highest number since 58,530 jobs were cut in
May.

   INTEREST RATES ON T-BILLS FALLS * Interest rates on 52-week Treasury bills
fell in yesterday's auction to the lowest level since April 1994. The average
discount rate was 4.89 percent, down from 5.06 percent at the last auction on
Dec. 7. The bills will carry an equivalent coupon interest rate of 5.16 percent,
with each $10,000 in face value selling for $9,505.60.

   MORTGAGE RATES DECLINE AGAIN * Thirty-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged
7.02 percent this week, down from 7.11 last week and the lowest in two years,
according to a national survey released by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial
rate of 5.46 percent, down from 5.55 percent last week.

   DISNEY AND CAP CITIES SHAREHOLDERS SAY YES * Shareholders of the Walt Disney
Co. and media conglomerate Capital Cities/ABC Inc. voted by wide margins, as
expected, in favor of Disney's proposed $19 billion purchase of Cap Cities.
Disney officials had been hoping to complete the purchase soon after the
shareholder votes, but have been unable to get needed regulatory clearance for
the transaction because of the partial federal government shutdown.

   ELECTRIC NEWS FROM GENERAL MOTORS * General Motors Corp. said it would begin
selling electric cars to the public in California and Arizona this fall,
becoming the first of the Big Three automakers to get into the mass market. The
EV-1 will cost in the mid-$30,000 range, plus an undisclosed amount to buy or
lease a battery charger. Its top speed will be 80 m.p.h.

   COMPUSERVE HAS A SEXUAL DILEMMA * The computer online service CompuServe says
it hopes to reopen access to 200 sexually oriented Internet forums as soon as it
figures out a way to block them from subscribers in Germany. Last week,
CompuServe banned all its 4 million subscribers worldwide from access to the
computer forums after German prosecutors said they were investigating online
pornography.

   THE BOTTOM LINE Future Medical Technologies International Inc., Wayne, said
it signed four contracts, totaling $7 million, to manage and conduct clinical
trials for a large drug company, which it did not name. . . . Quigley Corp.,
Doylestown, said its previously announced 1-for-10 reverse stock split had been
postponed to Feb. 1. . . . Common shares of CTI Group Inc., Valley Forge, began
trading on the Nasdaq over-the-counter bulletin board under the symbol CTIG.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO (1)
1. Reich

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002


                             2958 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright 1996 San Antonio Express-News
                        San Antonio Express-News (Texas)

                            January 5, 1996, Friday

SECTION: Pg. 12, Part A

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON - A genetic defect that causes cystic fibrosis apparently

SOURCE: Associated Press


BODY: WASHINGTON - A genetic defect that causes cystic fibrosis apparently
cripples the bacteria-fighting ability of cells lining the lungs, contributing
to the tendency of patients to get respiratory infections, researchers say.

   A laboratory study found cells from the lungs and airway of patients don't
have the ability to absorb bacteria, while such cells from normal patients
engulf and kill the bacteria, according to a study being published today in the
journal Science.

   John Olsen of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, a co-author of
the study, said that the work gives new understanding of how the cystic fibrosis
gene flaw affects its victims.

   Earlier research has shown the gene defect causes lung cells to lose the
ability to regulate the flow of sodium and chloride in the airway.

   This leads to a build up of thick mucus that can trap bacteria and cause
infection.

   The new study shows that in addition to the presence of the mucus, the
eptithelial cells lining the airway lack a normal response against bacteria.

   "It appears now that a new and different mechanism is at work in causing the
lung infection," said Olsen.

   Bacteria-killing airway cells, he said, "may be a first line of defense
against these microorganisms, along with coughing, mucus and cilia (small
hair-like cells that move bacteria and fluid in the airway)."

   Normal eptithelial cells will swallow and kill bacteria, said Olsen, but
cells with the cystic fibrosis gene defect can't.

   Laboratory studies showed that when the defective gene was replaced in
cultured eptithelial cells, the cells regain the normal ability to kill
bacteria, he said.

   Olsen said this suggests that gene therapy that would correct the genetic
flaws that cause cystic fibrosis would solve both the mucus and bacterial
problems associated with the disease.

   Dr. Gerald Pier of Harvard Medical School, first author of the study, said
that discovery of the cell function adds understanding to the disease process of
cystic fibrosis.

   medicine genetics genes

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998


                             2959 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright 1996 The Times-Picayune Publishing Co.
                        Times-Picayune (New Orleans, LA)

                         January 5, 1996 Friday, THIRD

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: CYSTIC FIBROSIS DEFECT WEAKENS LUNG

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:

   A genetic defect that causes cystic fibrosis apparently cripples the
bacteria-fighting ability of cells lining the lungs, contributing to the
tendency of CF patients to get respiratory infections, researchers say.

   A laboratory study found that cells from the lungs and airway of CF patients
do not have the ability to absorb bacteria, while such cells from normal
patients engulf and kill the bacteria, according to a study to be published
today in the journal Science.

   John Olsen of the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, a co-author of
the study, said the work gives new understanding of how the CF gene flaw affects
its victims.

   Earlier research has shown that the CF gene defect causes lung cells to lose
the ability to regulate the flow of sodium and chloride in the airway.  This
leads to a build-up of thick mucus that can trap bacteria and cause infection.

   The new study shows that in addition to the presence of the mucus, the
epithelial cells lining the airway lack a normal response against bacteria.

   "It appears now that a new and different mechanism is at work in causing the
lung infection," Olsen said. Bacteria-killing airway cells, he said, "may be a
first line of defense against these microorganisms, along with coughing, mucus
and cilia," which are small hair-like cells that move bacteria and fluid in the
airway.

   Normal epithelial cells will swallow and kill bacteria, said Olsen, but cells
with the CF gene defect cannot.

   Laboratory studies showed that when the defective CF gene was replaced in
cultured epithelial cells, the cells regained the normal ability to kill
bacteria, he said.

   Olsen said this suggests that gene therapy that would correct the genetic
flaws that cause CF would solve both the mucus and bacterial problems associated
with the disease.

   Dr. Gerald Pier of Harvard Medical School, first author of the study, said
discovery of the cell function adds understanding to the disease process of CF
and "could lead to potential therapies to correct the defective clearing of
bacteria from the lungs."

   Dr. Robert Beall, president of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, said the study
was important because it teaches science more about a deadly disease.

   "It emphasizes that if we can do gene therapy, we can control CF," he said.

   There are about 30,000 Americans with cystic fibrosis. The disease causes
both digestive and lung disorders, but drugs have been found that partially
control the digestive problems. Most CF patients die before age 30.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1996


                             2960 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright 1996 Detroit Free Press
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Detroit Free Press

                  January 4, 1996 Thursday METRO FINAL EDITION

SECTION: WWL; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: FUTURISTS SEE GENE THERAPY, SYNTHETIC BODY PARTS AHEAD FOR 2000

BYLINE: LINI S. KADABA Knight-Ridder Newspapers

BODY:

   While some will predict this year's crazy ins and outs or who's lusting after
whom on the star front, another type of crystal ball gazer will speculate on the
car of the future and trends in medicine.

   These futurists couldn't care less about Charles and Di or Bill Clinton's
chance at re-election or the hot new color.

   They focus instead on the year 2000 and beyond.

   By assessing innovations that are near, these researchers, entrepreneurs and
consultants try to forecast far-off trends.

   Some samples:

   The information age will pale next to the nano age, where tiny, tiny machines
will revolutionize fields such as health care, says futurist Arthur B. Shostak,
professor of sociology at Drexel University.

   Cars will become safer, actually anticipating and then avoiding crashes, says
Robert Q. Riley, president of a product design business that bears his name in
Scottsdale, Ariz.

   Everything will be custom-tailored, from chairs that mold their shape and
color to our bodies and moods, to prosthetic body parts and drugs.

   Here's a look at some of the intriguing, even fanciful, forecasts for the
fields of health, science and technology.

   GENETIC ENGINEERING. As the Human Genome Project continues to unravel the
genetic code that determines each person's individual makeup -- everything from
eye color to diseases, gene therapies to fix what's wrong will become more
commonplace. (The project's goal is to map all 23 pairs of chromosomes by 2005.)

   "It sort of turns the whole emphasis of health care on its head. Instead of
trying to fix things once they occur, we can use this custom technology to fix
things before they occur," said Andy Hines, staff futurist for the consulting
group Coates & Jarrett in Washington, D.C.

   But as we become more facile at turning genetic switches off and on, even
more ethical questions surely will arise. "I think we'll be able to re-engineer
humans," said Clem Bezold, executive director of the Institute for Alternative
Futures.

   "The more we talk about it as a society, (the more) it will make abortion
look tame."

   ROBOTS. More and more, these gizmos will take care of tasks mundane, messy
and dangerous.

   "You'll have a robot editor, who will clean things up in your story," Bezold
said.

   Robots also will clean up hazardous spills or take care of dangerous jobs,
such as mining.

   Already, Robodoc, a device under development by Integrated Surgical Systems,
can assist in hip replacement surgery.

   The surgeon uses a computer workstation to view 3D images of the patient's
femur, select an appropriate prosthesis and position the image of the prosthesis
in the femur. This data is saved and read by the robot's control computer. Then
Robodoc executes the plan under supervision of a surgeon.

   THE NANO AGE. Nanomedicine will use very small mechanisms to target problem
spots in our bodies.

   For example, a tiny bulldozer of sorts would clear out cholesterol, like so
much rubble, from arteries, making angioplasty obsolete.

   "It is the hottest field in medical frontiers," Shostak, of Drexel, said.
"Nano is the third great revolution -- agriculture, industrial and nano."

   "Nano" is a word from the Greek that means dwarf.

   Nanotechnology holds the possibility of allowing us to assemble atoms to
create whatever we want.

   Researchers envision an assembler -- a very small robotic device -- that will
be able to push atoms into place, making foods with better tastes, plastics with
lighter weight and increased strength, and computer chips a million times faster
than today's.

   It could also lead to machines able to repair specific human cells,
researchers say.

   HIGH-TECH CARS. The urban car will accommodate two people in an
ultra-compact, ultra-light vehicle used primarily for city driving, said Riley.
He also predicted a commuter car with a capacity for three people used primarily
for driving to and from work.

   Cars, probably gasoline-powered for the next decade, also will emphasize
safety technology, including smart air bags that sense weight and position of a
passenger, a blind-zone detector to warn the driver of a vehicle in his or her
blind spot while passing and talking intersections that track traffic flow and
issue warnings.

   "By 2020, crash survival will no longer be the emphasis. Instead crash
avoidance will be the focus," Riley said.

   SPARE BODY PARTS. The use of synthetic parts and devices will boom. By 2020,
Hines said one estimate predicts that a person older than 50 "without" a
synthetic part or implant will be the exception.

   "We can see people becoming more and more synthetic, moving toward a cyborg,
where there's some intelligence inside," he said.

   These replacement parts could also make use of nanotechnology.

   DESIGN YOUR OWN PRODUCT. Automated fabrication will allow you to actually
design your own car, from fender to interior layout. Or, for that matter, almost
any other product.

   This new technology takes an idea, comes up with a design created on a
computer and then produces a 3D model, or, in the case of the car, the actual
item.

   "It's the beginning of the end of the mass manufacturing economy. We are at
the beginning of the era where it's practical and economical to build things one
at a time," said Marshall Burns, president of Ennex Fabrication Technologies and
the author of "Automated Fabrication: Improving Productivity in Manufacturing."

   Already, autofab is used to make prototypes and molds, from which multiple
copies can be manufactured, he said.

   It also can be used to make sculptures based on computer designs and to
manufacture custom products, such as automobiles or prostheses, said Burns.

   He speculates that the technology might even be able to fabricate organic
tissue, raising the possibility of cloned cells and replacement body parts.

   ***

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002


                             2961 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 1996 The Houston Chronicle Publishing Company
                             The Houston Chronicle

                   January 4, 1996, Thursday, 2 STAR Edition

SECTION: HOUSTON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Nano age to supplant information highway, futurists predicting

BYLINE: LINI S. KADABA; Knight-Ridder Newspapers

BODY:

   While some will predict this year's crazy ins and outs or
who's lusting after whom on the star front, another type of
crystal ball gazer will speculate on the car of the future and
trends in medicine.

   These futurists couldn't care less about Di and Charles or
Clinton's chance at re-election or the hot new color.

   They focus instead on the year 2000 and beyond.

   By assessing innovations that are near, these researchers,
entrepreneurs and consultants try to forecast far-off trends.

   Some samples:
 The information age will pale next to the nano age, where
tiny, tiny machines will revolutionize fields such as health
care, says futurist Arthur B. Shostak, professor of sociology
at Drexel University.

   Cars will become safer, actually anticipating and then
avoiding crashes, says Robert Q. Riley, president of a product
design business that bears his name in Scottsdale, Ariz.

   Everything will be custom-tailored, from chairs that mold
their shape and color to our bodies and moods, to prosthetic
body parts and drugs.

   Here's a look at some of the intriguing, even fanciful,
forecasts for the fields of health, science and technology.

   Genetic engineering.  As the Human Genome Project
continues to unravel the genetic code that determines each
person's individual makeup - everything from eye color to
diseases, gene therapies to fix what's wrong will become more
commonplace. (The project's goal is to map all 23 pairs of
chromosomes by 2005.)

   ""It sort of turns the whole emphasis of health care on its
head.  Instead of trying to fix things once they occur, we can
use this custom technology to fix things before they occur,''
said Andy Hines, staff futurist for the consulting group
Coates & Jarrett in Washington, D.C

   But as we become more facile at turning genetic switches off
and on, even more ethical questions surely will arise.  ""I
think we'll be able to re-engineer humans,'' said Clem Bezold,
executive director of the Institute for Alternative Futures.

   ""The more we talk about it as a society, (the more) it will
make abortion look tame. ''
 Robots.  More and more, these gizmos will take care of
tasks mundane, messy and dangerous.

   ""You'll have a robot editor, who will clean things up in your
story,'' Bezold said.

   Robots also will clean up hazardous spills or take care of
dangerous jobs, such as mining.

   Already, Robodoc, a device under development by Integrated
Surgical Systems, can assist in hip replacement surgery.

   The surgeon uses a computer workstation to view 3-D images of
the patient's femur, select an appropriate prosthesis and
position the image of the prosthesis in the femur.

   This data is saved and read by the robot's control computer.

   Then Robodoc executes the plan under supervision of a
surgeon.

   Another experimental robot, a sort of Robo-Harvester by Silsoe
Research Institute in England, can extract fragile produce,
such as mushrooms, by making use of a mini-television-camera
and sensitive suction cups.

   The nano age.  Nanomedicine will use very small
mechanisms to target problem spots in our bodies.  For example,
a tiny bulldozer of sorts would clear out cholesterol, like so
much rubble, from arteries, making angioplasty obsolete.

   ""It is the hottest field in medical frontiers,'' Shostak, of
Drexel, said.  ""Nano is the third great revolution -
agriculture, industrial and nano. ''

   ""Nano'' is a word from the Greek that means dwarf.

   Nanotechnology holds the possibility of allowing us to
assemble atoms to create whatever we want.

   Researchers envision an assembler - a very small robotic
device -that will be able to push atoms into place, making
foods with better tastes, plastics with lighter weight and
increased strength, and computer chips a million times faster
than today's.

   It could also lead to machines able to repair specific human
cells, researchers say.

   High-tech cars.  The urban car will accommodate two
people in an ultra-compact, ultra-light vehicle used primarily
for city driving, said Riley.  He also predicted a commuter car
with a capacity for three people used primarily for driving to
and from work.

   Cars, probably gasoline-powered for the next decade, also will
emphasize safety technology, including smart air bags that
sense weight and position of a passenger, a blind-zone
detector to warn the driver of a vehicle in his or her blind
spot while passing, and talking intersections that track
traffic flow and issue warnings.  ""By 2020, crash survival will
no longer be the emphasis.  Instead, crash avoidance will be
the focus,'' Riley said.

   Spare body parts.  The use of synthetic parts and
devices will boom.  By 2020, Hines said, one estimate predicts
that a person older than 50 ""without'' a synthetic part or
implant will be the exception.

   ""We can see people becoming more and more synthetic, moving
toward a cyborg, where there's some intelligence inside,'' he
said.

   These replacement parts could also make use of
nanotechnology.

   Design your own product.  Automated fabrication will
allow you to actually design your own car, from fender to
interior layout.  Or, for that matter, almost any other
product.

   This new technology takes an idea, comes up with a design
created on a computer and then produces a 3-D model, or, in
the case of the car, the actual item.

   ""It's the beginning of the end of the mass manufacturing
economy.  We are at the beginning of the era where it's
practical and economical to build things one at a time,'' said
Marshall Burns, president of Ennex Fabrication Technologies
and the author of ''Automated Fabrication: Improving
Productivity in Manufacturing"" (Burns Marshall, $ 69.)

   Already, ""autofab'' is used to make prototypes and molds, from
which multiple copies can be manufactured, he said.

   It also can be used to make sculptures based on computer
designs and to manufacture custom products, such as
automobiles or prostheses, said Burns.

   He speculates that the technology might even be able to
fabricate organic tissue, raising the possibility of cloned
cells and replacement body parts.


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1996


                             2962 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright 1996 Globe Newspaper Company
                                The Boston Globe

                     January 1, 1996, Monday, City Edition

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: What's hot?;
What's not?
Once again we present our annual list of Ins + Outs;
1995

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Kahn, Globe Staff

BODY:

    Jay or Dave. Tagamet or Pepcid. CompuServe or America Online. The year gone
by was all about choices and consequences, good or bad.

   Some chose to believe, for instance, that if the gloves did not fit, they had
to acquit. Did they? The judge's instructions were precise, yet precision was
precisely where a lot of us got lost. Precision, in fact, led one way, common
sense another. As Oliver Wendell Holmes might have said, what up with that?

   If thou must choose, observed Auden, choose the odd. Does this explain the
popularity of Jenny Jones, Dinesh D'Souza and sheep cheese? Possibly. In 1995
Colin Powell chose not to run, "60 Minutes" chose not to fight and Shannon
Faulkner chose not to run or fight. It was that kind of year: odd-numbered,
evasive. Twelve months of split hairs and spit bits.

   To recap:

   Tortious interference was In and national service was Out. Repositioning was
In and re-engineering was Out. EQ was In and IQ was Out. Downloading was In and
uplifting was Out. Outerwear was In and the inner child was Out. The overclass
was In and the underdog was Out. So were Dennis Fung and Connie Chung. Wayne
Wang? In. Ditto Hideo Nomo.

   Eeek! Faster than your average 8-year old can click a mouse, Hush Puppies
crept In and Hooters flew Out. Lap dancing was In and the LAPD was Out. Dayton,
Ohio was In but datin' around was Out. Donald Fehr was Out and No Fear hats were
In. Pentagon psychics were Out but Bosnia peacekeepers were In. Right In there
with them were bisexuality, gene therapy, melatonin and the radical middle.
Middle-age spread? Out, Out, darn spot!

   If you had a nose for numbers, this was your kind of year - from Doom II,
Boyz II Men and Cal Ripkin's 2131-game streak to "Murder One" and "1945," Newt
Gingrich's unspeakable novel. Adding to the excitement, the 5,000 Dow rang In,
Windows 95 opened In and the Million Man March ambled In. Balancing the books,
however, the 55-mph speed limit, 29-cent postage stamp and 99 Restaurant & Pub
luncheon special all got cancelled Out - with tires squealing, postage due and
bullets flying.

   What a year this has been, what a rare mood we're in. Why it's almost like
being in. . .celebrity hell.

   Brad Pitt and Antonio Banderas were In, no argument there. Nicole Kidman and
Mia Sorvino partied hearty with the In crowd.  George Clooney, Jennifer Aniston
and Alicia Silverstone slipped Inside the velvet ropes, too, greeted there with
champagne flute In hand by Sandra Bullock, John Travolta and Tom Hanks. Larry
King? Inexplicably, the man is a giant.

   Meanwhile Out in the parking lot, Hugh Grant was propositioning, Drew
Barrymore was flashing, Kato Kaelin was crashing, Martha Stewart was dusting,
David Caruso was busting, Anna Nicole Smith was weeping, Ross Perot was bleating
and Roseanne was delivering - a guest issue of The New Yorker, no less.

   John F. Kennedy Jr. handed Out copies of his pumped-pec periodical, a mag
called George; thanks, JJ, but we're waiting for cover gal Princess Di as a
bulemic King George III. Oprah offered to take everyone Out to a lo-cal lunch.
Dan Dorfman passed Out stock tips. Jann Wenner stepped Out of his limo wondering
which which way the wind blew.

   Answer: retro-directionally, dude. The Beatles were back In. The Stones were
re-rolling. Brian Wilson was surfin' again. Rameses II was bigger and badder
than ever (a Time cover boy no less). Even old 007, James Bond, showed up In
fine form - shaken, not stirred. So did Edward Hopper, Piet Mondrian, John
Coltrane and Jane Austen. Richard Nixon? In the pink!

   Meanwhile, to make things perfectly clear, "Saturday Night Live" was tapped
Out, Robert MacNeil bade over and Out on PBS and "Candlepin Bowling" finally
struck Out on Channel 5, with no time to spare. "The Scarlet Letter?" Highly
erasable. Not unlike "Central Park West," Gail Sheehy's latest scribblings and
Enid Waldholtz's political future.

   Can anyone still be fence-sitting after a tilt-a-whirl annum like this one?
In 1995, you were In synch with the world web if you shopped at a theme mall,
smoked cigars, bet on Cigar, took a spinning class, played women's rugby, joined
an investment club, drove a sports utility vehicle, grew a soul patch, tried
narrative therapy, slurped Asian noodles, bought a ticket to see "Crumb," wore
Miracle Boost jeans, pursued an extreme sport, ordered a V-chip, rode the zipper
lane, donned an Ex Libris necktie, vacationed in Jackson Hole or switched to
managed care while swallowing generous doses of Ritalin.

   On the other hand, you were double-parked in Outer cyberspace if you propped
up the peso, popped off at the ATF, bet on a guilty verdict, took a sidebar,
played the race card, joined a militia unit, drove a sports car, grew a milk
moustache, tried recovered-memory therapy, slurped overpriced lattes, paid to
see "Waterworld," wore prisoner-camp chic, released your personal diaries, dated
Kimba Wood, published the Unabomber manifesto, vacationed on Martha's Vineyard
or exited Air Force One by the rear door. For anyone forced to, take two M&Ms
and call your spin doctor in the morning.

   Fame is fleeting (shame is In) while flame-outs are a stone certainty in this
line of work. The Garden closed Out, leaving the FleetCenter In business. In
came Mama Kin, the Mercury Bar and the Ted Williams Tunnel. Out went Stitches,
Jasper's and Megaplex plan No. 406. Billy Bulger heads Out to UMass Amherst. Jim
Manzi cashed Out at Lotus. Lois Harrison Jones was voted Out of the schoolyard.
Craig Unger walked In to run Boston maggie, the Best and Worst editor's gig in
town. Yo, are we In the running for Best Seasonal Wrap-Up yet?

   "Dilbert" became the new In thing among comicheads, Calvin and Hobbes (sob)
having been sent Outside to play for keeps. Lisa Loeb had an In kind of year,
rubbing elbows (and checkbooks) with Natalie Merchant, Isaac Mizrahi, Coolio,
Naughty By Nature, Todd Oldham, the Foo Fighters, Steve Jobs, Alanis Morisette,
the Blue Man Group, Michael Kinsley, Jonathan Harr, Michael Chabon, R.L. Stine
and Jonathan Katz.

   You could hardly say the same, though, for Out-basket rejects Pat Conroy, Boy
George, Dee Dee Myers, Joyce Maynard, Joe Eszterhas, Shoko Asahara, Michael
Jackson, Mrs. Michael Jackson, Hazel O'Leary, trader Nicholas Leeson and
high-flying investment banker Gerard Finneran, now taking remedial Toilet
Training 101. What's that new crime program? Three strikes and you're. . .

   We have a dream. The Patriots are In the Super Bowl and. . .whoops! Nightmare
city. Must've been some bad tuna we ate Out of the can. The Red Sox made it Into
the playoffs, pasting Tim Wakefield, Mo Vaughn and Dan Duquette In our scrapbook
for 1995. We can only fantasize that Peter McNeely gets knocked Out, Blaine
Lacher gets iced Out and the Celtics get boxed Out so they can draft Marcus
Camby for next season. In our ears this year: the Fabulous Sports Babe. In our
prayers: BU hockey hero Travis Roy.

   Finally, ring Out the old with a glass of Veuvre Cliquot raised to the
departed: Howard Cosell, Lana Turner, Wolfman Jack, Edward Bernays, Paul
Monette, Terry Southern, Selena, Alfred Eisenstaedt, Ginger Rogers, Jerry
Garcia, Burl Ives, George Abbott, Elizabeth Montgomery, James Merrill, Junior
Walker, Louis Malle, James Reston, Alexander Godunov, Robertson Davies, Shannon
Hoon, Dean Martin, Robie Macauley and our own irrepressible (and irreplacable)
colleague, John Robinson.

   Farewell, friends. Life's choices seem smaller without you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996


                             2963 of 2963 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 1996 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                             All Rights Reserved

                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       JANUARY 1, 1996 Monday SF EDITION

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'LL THEY THINK OF NEXT?< EXPERTS HAVE VISIONS OF THE COMING
CENTURY. READY FOR ROBOTS?< SMART CARS AND TALKING INTERSECTIONS?
MANUFACTURE-IT-YOURSELF TECHNOLOGY?

BYLINE: Lini S. Kadaba, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

BODY:

   While some will predict this year's crazy ins and outs or who's lusting after
whom on the star front, another type of crystal ball gazer will speculate on the
car of the future and trends in medicine.

   These futurists couldn't care less about Di and Charles or Clinton's chance
at re-election or the hot new color.

   They focus instead on the year 2000 and beyond.

   By assessing innovations that are near, these researchers, entrepreneurs and
consultants try to forecast far-off trends.

   Some samples:

   The information age will pale next to the nano age, where tiny, tiny machines
will revolutionize fields such as health care, says futurist Arthur B. Shostak,
professor of sociology at Drexel University.

   Cars will become safer, actually anticipating and then avoiding crashes, says
Robert Q. Riley, president of a product design business that bears his name in
Scottsdale, Ariz.

   Everything will be custom-tailored, from chairs that mold their shape and
color to our bodies and moods, to prosthetic body parts and drugs.

   Here's a look at some of the intriguing, even fanciful, forecasts for the
fields of health, science and technology.

   GENETIC ENGINEERING. As the Human Genome Project continues to unravel the
genetic code that determines each person's individual makeup - everything from
eye color to diseases - gene therapies to fix what's wrong will become more
commonplace. (The project's goal is to map all 23 pairs of chromosomes by 2005.)

   "It sort of turns the whole emphasis of health care on its head. Instead of
trying to fix things once they occur, we can use this custom technology to fix
things before they occur," said Andy Hines, staff futurist for the consulting
group Coates & Jarrett in Washington.

   But as we become more facile at turning genetic switches off and on, even
more ethical questions surely will arise. "I think we'll be able to re-engineer
humans," said Clem Bezold, executive director of the Institute for Alternative
Futures.

   "The more we talk about it as a society, [the more] it will make abortion
look tame."

   ROBOTS. More and more, these gizmos will take care of tasks mundane, messy
and dangerous.

   "You'll have a robot editor, who will clean things up in your story," Bezold
said.

   Robots also will clean up hazardous spills or take care of dangerous jobs,
such as mining.

   Already, Robodoc, a device under development by Integrated Surgical Systems,
can assist in hip replacement surgery.

   The surgeon uses a computer workstation to view 3-D images of the patient's
femur, select an appropriate prosthesis and position the image of the prosthesis
in the femur.

   This data is saved and read by the robot's control computer. Then Robodoc
executes the plan under supervision of a surgeon.

   Another experimental robot, a sort of Robo-Harvester by Silsoe Research
Institute in England, can extract fragile produce, such as mushrooms, by making
use of a mini-television camera and sensitive suction cups.

   THE NANO AGE. Nanomedicine will use very small mechanisms to target problem
spots in our bodies. For example, a tiny bulldozer of sorts would clear out
cholesterol, like so much rubble, from arteries, making angioplasty obsolete.

   "It is the hottest field in medical frontiers," Shostak, of Drexel, said.
"Nano is the third great revolution - agriculture, industrial and nano."

   Nano is a word from the Greek that means dwarf.

   Nanotechnology holds the possibility of allowing us to assemble atoms to
create whatever we want.

   Researchers envision an assembler - a very small robotic device - that will
be able to push atoms into place, making foods with better tastes, plastics with
lighter weight and increased strength, and computer chips a million times faster
than today's.

   It could also lead to machines able to repair specific human cells,
researchers say.

   HIGH-TECH CARS. The urban car will accommodate two people in an
ultra-compact, ultra-light vehicle used primarily for city driving, said Riley.
He also predicted a commuter car with a capacity for three people used primarily
for driving to and from work.

   Cars, probably gasoline-powered for the next decade, also will emphasize
safety technology, including smart air bags that sense weight and position of a
passenger, a blind-zone detector to warn the driver of a vehicle in his or her
blind spot while passing and talking intersections that track traffic flow and
issue warnings. "By 2020, crash survival will no longer be the emphasis. Instead
crash avoidance will be the focus," Riley said.

   SPARE BODY PARTS. The use of synthetic parts and devices will boom. By 2020,
Hines said one estimate predicts that a person older than 50 without a synthetic
part or implant will be the exception.

   "We can see people becoming more and more synthetic, moving toward a cyborg,
where there's some intelligence inside," he said.

   These replacement parts could also make use of nanotechnology.

   DESIGN YOUR OWN PRODUCT. Automated fabrication will allow you to actually
design your own car, from fender to interior layout. Or, for that matter, almost
any other product.

   This new technology takes an idea, comes up with a design created on a
computer and then produces a 3-D model, or, in the case of the car, the actual
item.

   "It's the beginning of the end of the mass manufacturing economy. We are at
the beginning of the era where it's practical and economical to build things one
at a time," said Marshall Burns, president of Ennex Fabrication Technologies and
the author of Automated Fabrication: Improving Productivity in Manufacturing.

   Already, autofab is used to make prototypes and molds, from which multiple
copies can be manufactured, he said.

   It also can be used to make sculptures based on computer designs and to
manufacture custom products, such as automobiles or prostheses, said Burns.

   He speculates that the technology might even be able to fabricate organic
tissue, raising the possibility of cloned cells and replacement body parts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO (5)
1. The Robodoc, a device being developed by Integrated Surgical Systems, assists
in hip replacement surgery. (TOM LIPPERT)
2-3. Body parts will be replaced more routinely in the future. Above, for
example, a replacement ear can be fabricated out of silicon-rubber to look like
the real thing. (UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO) At left, a device called an
additive fabricator makes multiple copies of small items simultaneously. Such
machines will let consumers customize many products, experts predict. (3D
SYSTEMS CORP.)
4. The Trimuter is a prototype of a three-wheel car that city dwellers and
commuters might drive in the future. (ROBERT Q. RILEY ENTERPRISES)
5. A researcher watches as a robot picks mushrooms at Silsoe Research Institute
in southern England. (London Pictures Service, courtesy of World Future Society)


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002
