
                              201 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 20, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Laser scalpel to cut cancer surgery risk

BYLINE: Gavin Madeley

BODY:


    A LASER scalpel that can split a single atom could give surgeons the edge in
the fight against cancer, scientists claimed yesterday.

    The low-risk surgery could be available within five years said the experts
who claimed it would be a cheaper, more effective way of treating brain tumours
and other cancerous growths.

    Late last year physicists from Glasgow University's Laser Ionisation Group
became the first in the world to split an atom using a high-powered laser beam,
beating American rivals by three weeks.

    Working with scientists from Imperial College, London, they used the world's
most powerful laser, Vulcan, based at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in
Oxford.

    The laser beam focused onto a tiny spot of uranium a quarter of the diameter
of a human hair to generate a strong beam of high-energy protons capable of
being precisely directed but without releasing the huge levels of radiation
normally associated with nuclear reactions.

    Yesterday, the group's leader Dr Ken Ledingham said lasers would produce
hi-tech scalpels by focusing a high-energy stream of protons onto diseased
growths.

    By avoiding contact with healthy tissue, the pinpoint accuracy of laser
treatment could dramatically cut the risks associated with potentially dangerous
procedures like brain surgery.

    He said: 'This is very exciting because laser surgery is very practical and
is likely to be far more effective than present radiotherapy treatments.' Dr
Ledingham said the Glasgow team had first proposed using lasers to split an atom
two years ago, but lasers had only recently become powerful enough to achieve
that goal.

    Until now, the only machines capable of generating the required stream of
pro-sent, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary is the only Scottish hospital which has one
on site.

    Dr Ledingham said: 'Our experiments have opened the way to nuclear physics
on the table top.

    'It could lead to far cheaper laserpowered machines which would put a very
effective treatment within the budgets of many hospitals.' Professor Arnold
Moran, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, said the laser experiments
were interesting but predicted that the long-term goal for cancer treatments was
gene therapy rather than hi-tech cutting equipment.

    He added: 'Lasers will probably help to make surgery more bearable for
patients, but will not provide a cure for cancer.

    'That will come from identifying which genes cause cancer and findings ways
of preventing that from happening.'


GRAPHIC: TABLING NEW SCIENCE: DR KEN LEDINGHAM

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000


                              202 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 8, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 82

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Dealers not rattled by downturn in US;
MARKET REPORT

BYLINE: Geoff Foster

BODY:


    DEALERS held their nerve as Wall Street plummeted 323 points in early
trading. American investors baled out after a shock profits warning from
consumer products giant Procter & Gamble, coupled with Federal Reserve chairman
Alan Greenspan's strong hint that interest rates will soon have to rise to cool
down the rampant US economy. Fed policy makers next meet on March 21.

    Perhaps if Nasdaq had fallen out of bed, too, after SEC chairman Arthur
Levitt said he was concerned that retail investors did not fully understand the
valuations of many tech stocks, it would have caused some panic. Instead, Nasdaq
briefly topped the magic 5000 level. It has doubled in a year.

    The Footsie dipped 101.3 points to 6466.5. Turnover of 2.2bn was swelled by
299m Vodafone AirTouch traded.

    Fund managers continued to go overweight following the mobile giant's
purchase of Germany's Mannesmann.

    Procter's warning that third-quarter earnings will be 10pc to 11pc below
last year's sparked nervous selling of Liptons, Persil and Oxo group Unilever
which fell 33 1/2p to 347 1/4p on meaty turnover of 44m. The shares traded above
680p early last year.

    Unilever last month said it plans to cut 25,000 jobs and close 100 plants. A
global e-procurement system will move much of its purchasing online.

    Yesterday it grouped its Calvin Klein and Nautica fragrances in a new
company, Unilever Cosmetics.

    Profit warnings from Edison International and Entergy Corporation of the US
pulled the plug on several UK utilities. PowerGen blew a fuse to finish 62p off
at 3673/4p on fears it will be relegated from the Footsie today. National Power
lost 26p to 3281/2p and Scottish Power 231/2p to 4501/2p. British Energy
declined 271/2p to 2123/4p after broker Goldman Sachs slashed its earnings
forecasts.

    On the other hand, National Grid surged 311/2p to 550p.

    Manchester United scored a gain of 49p to 376p after broker Warburg Dillon
Read advised clients to get stuck in and set a 500p target. More investors are
also clicking on to ManU as a good Internet play. Launched in 1998, its
www.manutd.com site now gets more than 6m hits a month.

    BTG jumped 90p to 1487 1/2p, after 1555p, on signing up a seventh licensee
for its blood-clotting protein Factor 1X. US group Avigen will make a GBP
1m-plus upfront payment to use it in the gene therapy system it is developing to
treat Haemophilia B.

    Speculation that Stagecoach will attract a full-scale bid before it gets a
chance to sell or float Porterbrook for GBP 1bn-plus left it 6p higher at 100p.

    But a Salomon Smith Barney downgrade left bus company First Group 8p off at
163p. The US broker slashed its current year pre-tax estimate by 7.6pc to GBP
128.4m and next year's by 14.7pc to GBP 125.2m.

    Profit-taking following an upbeat trading statement left Aim-listed broker
Teather & Greenwood 65p off at 8821/2p. Trading in the 10 months to February has
been buoyant. The board believes full-year profits will be significantly ahead
of market expectations.

    Ken Ford becomes chief executive on May 1 and Charterhouse Securities has
been appointed broker with immediate effect. A move to a full listing is planned
for July.

    Accountancy software group Touchstone advanced 20p to 309 1/2p. It is
trading strongly after a slight Millennium blip. Pre-tax profits for the year to
March should come in at around GBP 1.3m, rising to GBP 1.9m next year.

    Biotech highflier Cambridge Antibody touched 5250p in a restricted market
before closing 837 1/2p up at 4975p. It is raising GBP 100m in a placing and
open offer to speed up and expand its research and development.

    Over on Ofex, dealings in Disperse Technologies, which conducts research
into new ways of making creams and lotions, got off to a bright start. The close
was 201/2p up at 641/2p.

    Support services group Hawtal Whiting rocketed 31p to 67 1/2p. It is in
advanced negotiations about a sizeable commercial contract.

    * REALISING that online credit protection will be crucial as e-commerce
explodes, investors kept piling into Retail Decisions. The provider of credit
card fraud prevention services to retailers and banks in the UK and America
touched 2141/2p before closing 16p higher at 1951/2p on lumpy turnover of 6.4m.
Dealers believe a Nasdaq listing and an earnings-enhancing US deal could be on
the cards.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000


                              203 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 7, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 332 words

BODY:


    SCIENTISTS have found a way of getting rid of grey hair using a form of gene
therapy to restore natural hair colour.

    They say it will one day replace dyes as a way of reviving the youthful look
for the middle-aged and the elderly.

    Researchers altered a gene in a hair follicle to restore pigmentation to the
hairs of albino mice.

    It is the first time that gene therapy has been used in cosmetics, according
to the California-based company which is helping to pioneer research into an
anti-greying 'cure' for grey hair.

    Millions of pounds a year are spent by men and women who want to get rid of
grey hairs. For the company which finds a way of genetically reversing colour
loss in hair there could be big profits.

    Scientists working at the University of Philadelphia have altered a damaged
gene sequence in the hair follicle to give back hair its natural colour.

    Greying hair is caused by a loss of melanin in the hair follicles as a part
of the ageing process.

    Molecules that work to create melanin were added to the hair follicles of
the mice to restore colour.

    Researchers say it will one day be possible to genetically correct greying
hair either by injection, tablets or applying a lotion to the hair.

    In the trials with mice, it took several weeks for colour to come back into
hair and it lasted for up to three months before more treatment was necessary.

    Professor Koyonggeun Yoon, a dermatologist at Philadelphia University, said
correcting the gene mutation at an earlier stage of the hair growth cycle or
correcting stem cells in the skin might lead to permanent or more long-lasting
results.

    Robert Hoffman of AntiCancer Inc, the biotechnology company funding the
research, said: 'This offers exciting possibilities for modifying hair features.

    'The hair follicle stands as one of the most promising targets for
effective, useful, safe and lucrative gene therapy.' MARTYN HALLE The answer to
the grey-hair blues It need never happen


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2000


                              204 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 1, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 81

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Amersham float may be in the genes at Nycomed

BYLINE: Tim Freeborn

BODY:


    FORGET electronics: the genomics revolution is going to make far more
difference to people's lives. This is the message from Bill Castell, boss of
Nycomed Amersham.

    Gene therapy will massively extend life expectancy, he tells actuaries and
insurers.

    It could also be used for military or terrorist weapons to target specific
population groups: Nycomed is advising the Ministry of Defence.

    No longer science fiction, genomics is starting to drive share prices and
Amer-sham fears being left behind.

    So Castell ponders a partial float of Amersham Pharma-cia Biotech, the
55pc-owned division which supplies tools for gene research. Recruitment may
become a problem as rivals' shares and option packages soar.

    Castell merged Amersham with the larger Nycomed, a leader in X-ray supplies.
But the gene products all come from Amersham and later acquisitions, while the
X-ray market is cut-throat.

    The merged business is a complex one which Castell may have to unpick to
deliver value for shareholders.

    Excluding disposals, 1999 profits rose 5pc to GBP 233.8m pre-tax, worth
21.1p per share.

    Most growth was in the second half when X-ray prices steadied.

    Even in genomics, Amer-sham only provides tools. Big bucks are in databases
linking genes and proteins.

    Shares rose 11p to 503 1 /2 p.

    The dividend is 5.85p, up from 5.3p.

    L


GRAPHIC: LIFE SCIENCES: GENOMICS IS DRIVING SHARE PRICES

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2000


                              205 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 22, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 47

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Enzyme to stop the tell- tale signs of ageing

BYLINE: Roger Dobson

BODY:


    SCIENTISTS have succeeded in preventing ageing in human skin. Using gene
therapy technology, they have injected an enzyme into skin cells and given the
cells immortality.

    The same enzyme also works on delaying ageing in other tissue that
deteriorates with age, including bone, muscle and the cardiovascular system.

    The scientists at universities in Cardiff and Brighton are now working on
trying to turn back time in skin that has already aged, research that has major
implications for conditions as diverse as heart disease and age-related
degeneration.

    At the University of Wales College of Medicine in Cardiff, Dr David Kipling
and his team have been investigating the effects of the enzyme in skin tissue
cells from patients with Werner syndrome whose cells age four or five times
faster than normal.

    They have found that by putting the gene that encodes for the enzyme into a
virus and introducing it into skin cells, tissue just keeps on going.

    He said: 'For Werner syndrome patients, it offers the possibility they may
be able to beat the disease. For the rest of us, we may be able to prevent
ageing throughout our body.'


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000


                              206 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 11, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: The jab that may save thousands

BYLINE: James Chapman

BODY:


    SCIENTISTS announced last night they are close to developing a jab that
could halt or even reverse heart disease.

    They found that an experimental treatment appeared to eliminate the build-up
of fat deposits in the arteries, which can cause heart attacks and strokes.

    Mice specially bred to have high cholesterol levels were injected with a
gene to bring about production of the human version of a key protein involved in
clearing cholesterol from the body.

    About 200 days afterwards, so-called 'plaques' of dangerous fat build-ups in
the mice had almost disappeared, the French researchers found.

    They believe gene therapy injections could offer complete protection to
people at high risk of heart disease.

    Last night Dr Duncan Dymond, consultant cardiologist at St Bartholomew's
Hospital, London, said if the gene therapy treatment could ultimately be used in
humans it would be the 'Holy Grail of medicine'.

    'If you eliminate coronary heart disease, God has got to find something else
to kill us with,' he said. But he added: 'This is very exciting research, but we
have to remember that gene therapy has to go through extensive testing before it
can be used. That will take years. We have to also bear in mind that a mouse and
a 70-year-old woman are very different.

    'At the moment we just don't know if it will work. It's a case of watching
this space.' A spokesman for the British Heart Foundation also urged caution but
admitted the results were 'quite stunning'.

    The research team, from a division of the pharmaceutical company
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer and the Pasteur Institute in Paris, focused their efforts on
the protein called apolipoprotein E (apoE).

    One group of mice was given the gene therapy and the other was not. Dr
Nicolas Duverger, who led the research, said: 'There were tremendous differences
in the number of fatty deposits between our treated and untreated animals, and
we can say there were almost zero of the fatty deposits in the blood vessels of
the gene therapy group.' Dr Duverger said that while plaques in the treated mice
were almost entirely eliminated, levels of 'good' cholesterol, which is known to
help clear fat from the body, rose sharply.

    He said eventually scientists might devise an apoE therapy for people with
high cholesterol levels that can be given by injection every couple of years.

    The scientists reported their findings in the American Heart Association
journal Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology.

    Heart disease is the UK's biggest killer, claiming 140,000 lives a year.

    Strokes kill an additional 65,000.

    Professor Sir Charles George, medical director of the British Heart
Foundation, said: 'This research is very exciting. The BHF is funding several
studies researching the role of apoE. But even if research is positive, we
predict that it could be at least 10 years before the use of apoE is recommended
for treatment in humans.' Safety fears could also delay the use of any heart
disease jab. Last month, the future of gene therapy experiments was thrown into
doubt by a damning report into the death of American teenager Jesse Gelsinger. A
gene treatment used in an attempt to cure his rare liver disorder provoked a
fatal immune system response.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2000


                              207 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 10, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 43

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: How spicing up your scalp could help banish those grey days forever;
JAPANESE PEPPER STOPS YOUR HAIR TURNING WHITE, SAY SCIENTISTS

BYLINE: James Chapman

BODY:


    IT is a sign of middle age which men and women have for many years sought to
banish or disguise in many ways.

    Now scientists say they have developed a 'cure' for grey hair.

    They claim the secret to preventing the salt-and-pepper look can be found in
the traditional Japanese kitchen.

    For the way to stop hair turning white, apparently, is to use a type of
black pepper.

    Researchers at the laboratories of Japan's leading cosmetics maker,
Shiseido, developed the remedy after first discovering the mechanism by which
hair goes grey.

    The secret ingredient is sansho, a Japanese pepper made from the pod of the
prickly ash. The scientists say they are close to developing a lotion containing
the active chemical in sansho.

    When rubbed in, it permeates the scalp and, it is claimed, could banish grey
hair for ever.

    Dr Ohji Ifuku, who led the research, said sansho appears to reactivate cells
which produce melanin, the natural pigment which determines hair colour.
Crucially, the team discovered that most hair goes grey when it sprouts, not
while it is growing.

    When hair falls out in the natural cycle, it pulls out the pigment cells
known as melanocytes with it, according to the scientists.

    Normally, new cells are activated and coloured hair grows back.

    But Dr Ifuku's team discovered that with the ageing process, the cells
either run out or become inactive.

    'In the majority of cases, when the old black hair dies and a new one starts
to grow in its place, it is grey,' said Dr Ifuku. 'The question was how to
reactivate the melanocytes at that stage.' Experiments showed that extract of
sansho which has an aromatic, lemony flavour and is more traditionally used to
spice up fish or chicken did the trick.

    It reactivated the cells, which began to produce pigment again vastly
reducing the incidence of grey hair in both men and women.

    Image consultant Mary Spillane, who has advised politicians from all the
main parties, predicted that the new lotion would be in huge demand across the
world.

    'At the first sign of grey hair, everyone will have a bottle by their side,'
she said. 'If it comes on to the market it will be a huge blow to the hair
colouring industry.

    'Men and women hate it when grey hair starts to appear. Salt and pepper
hair, where you get flecks of white against black, can look quite distinguished
but undoubtedly it makes you look ten years older.

    The business world is increasingly ageist and is all about youth and energy.

    'Anyone who sees grey coming through will be reaching for the Japanese
pepper.' A sansho-based treatment would probably be more acceptable to consumers
than gene therapy, which has been hailed as another way to conquer greying hair.

    American scientists have managed to turn albino mice hairs black using a
gene repair technique.

    They changed the white hair by rubbing small amounts of a gene on to the
skin to repair the existing defect. Twenty one days later, the first black hairs
appeared.

    Although there are high hopes that the technique could translate to humans,
the experts admitted it could take some time because of the difference between
human and mouse skin.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000


                              208 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                January 23, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 1;10;11

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: DEATHS HALT GENE TESTS;
Laboratories accused of cover-up after seven fatalities

BYLINE: William Lowther;Lorraine Fraser

BODY:


    THE future of ground breaking human gene therapy experiments was in disarray
last night after a damning report into the death of a teenager.

    Its shock conclusions brought calls for a halt to all such programmes in
Britain and America.

    US health officials ordered an end to all experiments at the world-renowned
Pennsylvania Institute for Human Gene Therapy, where 18-year-old human guinea
pig Jesse Gelsinger died.

    Other centres across America will be inspected with the likelihood of
further closures. In Britain, health officials will closely examine the US
report, due out within the next few days, including its devastating condemnation
of the events surrounding Jesse's death.

    Liberal Democrat Lord Alton demanded a halt to British trials. 'This very
early case from the US does not augur well and should give everyone pause to
reflect,' he said. 'The manipulation of human genes carries awesome consequences
for the human race. I will be tabling questions in the House of Lords pressing
the Government to impose an immediate moratorium.' Jesse, who suffered from a
rare liver disorder, was being treated by having new genes pumped into his body.
These genes, carried in a common cold virus, should have replaced malfunctioning
genes. But the virus provoked a fatal immune system response .

    Now the report by America's Food and Drug Administration into the first
known death directly linked to the treatment has 'raised serious questions'
about the quality of science going on in research laboratories.

    It concluded that the whole Pennsylvania programme was in 'serious
disarray'. Investigators said the university had been unable to prove volunteers
were suitable or had been adequately warned of the risks involved.

    The university had lost track of vital records of experimental genes that
had been infused into patients' livers.

    Most damningly the FDA ruled the experiments should have stopped even before
Jesse entered the programme because four successive volunteers had suffered
serious side-effects which were not reported to the government as required.

    'There seems to have been a cover-up, ' said an FDA source. The report also
reveals that in previous trials monkeys given a high dose of the genetically
engineered virus died in a

    similar way. The latest developments follow other highly disturbing
discoveries that doctors and drug companies in America have hidden the deaths of
at least six people in the past 19 months involved in controversial gene therapy
experiments. The fatalities came during heart studies carried out by Dr Ronald
Crystal of the Cornell Medical Centre in Manhattan and by Dr Jeffrey Isner of
Tufts University in Boston.

    The effect on Britain's pioneers could be devastating.

    Last July The Mail on Sunday revealed surgeon Nagy Habib was suspended for
four weeks amid allegations that he breached safety controls in trials at a
Danish hospital which he hoped to continue at Hammersmith Hospital in London.

    His work on liver cancer involved injecting human cells combined with an
adenovirus like that used in Jesse's case to replace bad genes and make tumours
wither and die. He was later reinstated but his Hammersmith programme remains
unstarted while an investigation continues.

    Gene therapy trials have only been conducted worldwide since 1990 and are
very closely monitored. Researchers must detail the tests to prevent the spread
of any organism used by them. All programmes in Britain have to be approved by
the Gene Therapy Advisory Committee.

    Last night the Committee's chairman Norman Nevin said different techniques
used to administer viruses carrying genes meant problems like those in the US
were unlikely in Britain. 'We have looked at events following Jesse's death and
certainly there are no implications for any patient in the UK,' he said.

    Professor Michael Steel, of St Andrews's University School of Biological and
Medical Sciences, said: 'The problems seem to have highlighted a failure to
observe the regulations in force in the US.

    'In the UK there is very close observation by the regulatory body. But you
can never guarantee there is no risk at all.

    'It is in the nature of the research that you don't know the outcome for
certain.'

    He thought the genes would cure him but Jesse was dead in a matter of days

    Researchers lost track of genes they injected into patients livers and did
not warn of side effects

    JESSE GELSINGER thought his brave decision to take part in a gene experiment
would help other people born with crippling and incurable illnesses.

    He thought he would play his part in bringing a better future for all
mankind.

    But within a day of the experiment last September at the University of
Pennysylvania's Institute for Gene Therapy, the 18-year-old youth was dead .

    . . killed by a virus his doctors regarded as harmless.

    His death was almost certainly caused directly by gene therapy, and health
chiefs at the US Food and Drug Administration ordered an immediate
investigation.

    The results, announced yesterday, found that the university's prestigious
programme was in 'serious disarray' and the Administration immediately halted
the Institute's research.

    And the move prompted warnings last night that scientists are moving too
fast in the brave new world of genetic engineering.

    Gene therapy, which seeks to cure diseases by giving patients new DNA, has
been touted as the future of medicine. The multinational pharmaceutical industry
has poured billions of pounds into research.

    However, critics have been claiming for some time that the vast amounts
involved have led doctors to take short cuts and push forward too fast putting
patients at risk.

    A major cause of concern is that most gene therapy experiments in Britain
and the US use a modified cold virus an adenovirus to carry new genes into the
patient's body. But there is growing concern borne out by this tragedy that the
virus itself can do damage.

    Jesse Gelsinger had 'ornithine tran-scarbamylase deficiency', a rare
disorder which blocks the body's ability to break down ammonia, a normal
by-product of metabolism.

    Within a day of being given the revolutionary treatment, which linked the
new gene to the adenovirus in order to get it into his body and delivered it
directly to his liver the organ where the gene was meant to work he developed
respiratory distress, then liver and kidney failure.

    After an internal investigation last month Dr James Wilson, head of the
programme, confirmed that the adenovirus in the experiment on Jesse was to blame
for his death.

    He said: 'The adenovirus provoked an immediate immune response, or
inflammation, a widespread inflammation that was out of control and eventually
led to the failure of his lungs, then the demise of his other organs. We are
trying to find what it is from the adenovirus that initiated this inflammatory
response. ' Astonishingly, the FDA report also questions the ability of the
Institute which has a world-wide reputation even to keep proper data on results
of its experiments or ensure its volunteers are fully informed of the risks.

    Investigators said the university had been unable to provide proof that any
of the volunteers in the study had been eligible to participate or had been
warned adequately of the risks .

    The university had also lost track of several lots of the experimental genes
infused into patients' livers.

    The FDA ruled that the experiments should have stopped even before Gelsinger
entered the programme because four successive volunteers suffered serious
side-effects which were not reported to the government as required.

    It has also emerged that monkeys given a high dose of the genetically
engineered virus died in much the same way as Mr Gelsinger.

    The revelations have stunned the US research community, with FDA inspectors
expected to take a close look at the activities of other centres nation-wide.

    Researchers are astounded that such critcism could be made of an Institute
which boasts such a reputation. It has a budget of GBP 16 million a year and is
one of the pre-eminent research centres in the US.

    Programme head Dr Wilson is a former president of the American Society for
Gene Therapy (ASGT). And he is known to have founded a biotech company called
Genovo Inc, giving him a potentially large financial stake in the outcome of the
study involving Gelsinger.

    Dr Savio Wook, president of the American Society for Gene Therapy, said: 'I
certainly hope this will be a message to all investigators that we really need
to conform to regulations.' Gene therapy has grown enormously from its
beginnings in 1990 when a four-year-old girl with an immune disorder became the
first patient to be treated with genes.

    Yet despite hundreds of studies involving thousands of patients there is
still no documented evidence of any cures.

    Paul Gelsinger, the dead youth's father, said last night: 'I always thought
the doctors were right in pressing ahead with these experiment but now it looks
as if everybody was wrong. Even me.' Mr Gelsinger has agreed to be a witness
before special Congressional hearings that will open later this week to examine
whether there is sufficient oversight for patient safety in gene therapy
experiments.

    In the past he has given great support to the doctors and scientists even
those directly involved with his son's death.

    But leading scientists in Britain have urged a slowdown in the rush to gene
therapies.

    Professor Norman Nevin, chairman of the Government's gene therapy advisory
committee, insisted yesterday there was no cause for concern for patients
involved in gene therapy trials in Britain.

    Professor Nevin, based at the department of medical genetics at Belfast City
Hospital, added: 'There are no implications for the UK whatsoever because none
of the trials in the UK is using the same route of administration of the
adenovirus.

    The foremost centres for gene therapy in Britain are Hammersmith Hospital,
London, and Birmingham University.

    Many universities are also involved in research.

    About 300 patients have received gene therapy in Britain. But no liver
patients are involved in gene therapy trials in the UK.

    Virus that delivers therapy

    SCIENTISTS have been trying to cure inherited diseases by replacing
defective genes with normal ones for over two decades.

    Several genes responsible for conditions such as cystic fibrosis and immune
disorders have been identified.

    The challenge is getting them into the body in a way that they can function.

    What is needed is a 'vector' to carry the new gene into the cells of the
body where they can integrate into the patient's own genetic blueprint.

    In cystic fibrosis, where the lungs are affected, researchers are
investigating inhalations of artificial fat molecules as a way of delivering the
gene.

    In immune deficiencies, the approach has been to alter blood cells outside
the body to carry the missing gene and then infuse them into the patient to
provide new immunity.

    But other illnesses' adenoviruses related to the common cold virus have been
widely researched as possible vectors.

    Once the gene is identified it can be made artificially and mixed with the
virus until it becomes incorporated into the virus's own set of chromosomes.

    When the adenovirus is given to the patient as in the case of Jesse
Gelsinger it enters the body's cells as it would do in a normal infection,
taking the new gene with it.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000


                              209 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 15, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 80

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Gene genie may give Bio that magic touch;
INVESTMENT EXTRA

BYLINE: Michael Walters

BODY:


    TRIFLING turnover, hefty losses, hardly any tangible assets, yet a big,
bulging portfolio of bright ideas which might make a fortune. We are talking
about yet another Internet wonder, right?

    Wrong. Try Oxford BioMedica and the world-beating potential of gene therapy.
You might need to take a deep breath before plunging in, and to close your eyes
when it comes to understanding exactly what the company does.

    But if you are prepared to be a little brave, the shares could prove an
outstanding investment at 45 1/4 p, where the company is capitalised at just
over GBP 64m.

    Husband and wife team Alan and Susan Kingsman started together in Oxford
University's biochemistry department. In 1995, they established Oxford
Biomedica, and floated it on Aim in 1996 with a reputation as a world leader in
gene therapy.

    Sadly, the underwriting got into a tangle, and the shares slumped from 88p
to 47 1 /2 p. They drifted to 8p in the autumn of 1998, but a steady recovery
has been gathering pace.

    At last, the company is on the verge of translating promise into action.

    We will all learn about gene therapy over the next decade. It involves
manipulating the genes which help determine our makeup, using processes which
can deliver

    beneficial genes into our cells to eliminate deficiencies, and counter other
problems. It is on the brink of explosive growth and the whole market could be
worth GBP 6bn by 2005.

    Oxford Bio is potentially an important player. It has 39 patented gene
therapy technologies. Some are being used to develop in-house gene therapy
products, and other elements are being licensed out as tools for others to use
in their own therapies.

    Crucial among these is a range of 'vectors' delivery agents which allow
genes to be inserted into cells.

    And there are components which influence the behaviour of genes, led by a
control mechanism which can effectively switch genes on or off when oxygen
levels are moderated.

    Such research is expensive, and generates little income in the early stages.
Oxford Bio has suffered from cash constraints, but made a major breakthrough in
December 1998 with an $ 18m licensing deal with Rhone Poulenc Rorer, covering
the control mechanism that influ-

    ences the growth of blood vessels in cardiac disease. It has been supported
by a link to a Korean company, and an agreement marrying Oxford Bio's gene
delivery with cell encapsulation technology from Modex of Switzerland.

    That could allow diabetics to produce insulin in implanted cell systems.

    Other possibilities include the ability to deliver genes to the correct part
of the brain to treat Parkinson's disease.

    That employs a proprietary Lentivector gene delivery system, based on the
equine infectious anaemia virus, and is virtually harmless to humans. It has
wide applications, and could be used against AIDS and cancer.

    Oxford Bio is in advanced discussions over half a dozen deals, with a
similar number of possibilities in the early stages. Major international players
are involved.

    This is likely to generate a steady news flow through the year.

    Advance payments should ease a tight cash position, which should improve
more as research pro-grammes progress. Eventually there should be a flow of
royalties from Oxford's own therapies.

    Chairman Kingsman is determined to make Oxford Bio a significant player and
may look to step up to a full listing before long.

    The shares carry little downside, and the chances of a major deal are high.
Buy.


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000


                              210 of 210 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 1, 2000

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Some things will never change;
MILLENNIUM MAIL - GOODBYE TO THE CHECKOUT QUEUE AND HELLO TO THE SMART CARD THAT
MAKES THOSE VITAL DECISIONS

BYLINE: Helen Weathers;Walter Ellis

BODY:


    SHOPPING? So different, but we'll still have an eye for a bargain

    JUST imagine walking into a clothing store and standing in front of a body
scanner which records your every measurement and then stores it on a computer.

    Then, from your computer, call up your image and see yourself dressed in the
shop's latest designs. Not a static image, but one which shows you moving around
and from every conceivable angle.

    No more depressing changing room scenes. No more nasty surprises, simply an
outfit you know will flatter you. This is how we will shop for clothes in the
21st century.

    'We already have the technology and very soon it will provide the consumer
with this kind of service,' says Julian Markham, author of The Future Of
Shopping: Traditional Patterns And Net Effects.

    'We will soon have handheld scanners in stores and shoppers will each have
"smart cards" which list personal likes and dislikes - even allergies.

    Safeway is already holding trials for scanners.

    'People will go into a supermarket, take a scanner from the shelf and swipe
their smart card through it before they start shopping.

    'They will scan items as they place them in their basket and if,
inadvertently, they pick something they are allergic to or won't like, the
scanner will emit a warning. Money will be automatically debited from their
account so they will never have to queue at a checkout.

    CONSUMERS will be able to check by computer what products a store has, the
price and whether it's in stock before they set off.

    They will be able to access information about car park queues, journey
times, routes to the shop as well as much more besides.' By 2010, electronic
shopping is expected to account for 7 pc of all retail sales. Most experts agree
that internet shopping will not spell the end of traditional High Street stores,
but will increasingly complement them, with retailers using it to provide an
additional service.

    'While internet shopping has its advantages for people who don't have time
to trawl through the High Street, people have gone out shopping since medieval
times, it is a social thing and that won't change,' says Mr Markham.

    Howard Southern, a director of consumer consultancy The Henley Centre, adds:
'Time pressure is going to be an ongoing issue for consumers. Our latest survey
shows that 49 pc of people feel they don't have enough time to get things done.
For them internet shopping is a great bonus.

    'However, it's not as much fun staring at a computer screen as it is
shopping in the High Street. People still like the buzz of paying for something
and walking away with a possession in a carrier bag.

    'In the 21st century, shop location will be less important than access.

    Instead of getting the customer to the shop, it will be a question of
getting the shop to the customer.

    'That will mean extended opening hours, out-of-town centres, shops in
transport hubs and service stations, telephone services, remote shopping and
home delivery.

    'Shopping in the last century was all about right product, right place,
right time. But shopping in the 21st will be about anything, anywhere, any
time.'

    HOMES

    PRESSURE on time, concern over the environment and energy consumption, more
people working from home, a changing social structure and new technology will
completely transform the kind of houses we live in during the next century.

    Prefabricated, partly portable homes for life which can be adapted to suit
the owner's changing needs are likely to become the norm; you will be able to
take your sitting room with you when you move home, for example, and adapt it to
the shell of your new house.

    New homes will be made up of components which can be assembled, changed as
the individual's needs dictate and taken apart for transportation.

    It will be a bit like a very sophisticated version of Lego.

    And houses will be 'smart', able to predict or anticipate the demands of
their occupants and in a position to respond to commands phoned in from afar.

    You might be stuck in a traffic jam or away on holiday, but still - via your
own website operated remotely by a mobile phone link - be able to switch on the
lights, let the cat in or have a meal cooked and ready for the exact time of
your return.

    Missing the children's birthdays or a vital business meeting will be a thing
of the past, as, from an hotel room anywhere in the world, you could take part
in a 'virtual party' or 'conference' via a wall-size screen.

    Already, Laing Homes has built Europe's first internet house on the
outskirts of Watford.

    It looks traditional on the outside, but inside GBP 25,000 worth of
computerised equipment allows you to run your office, do your shopping and
organise the family without leaving your bed.

    But the changes will be gradual, says Sarah Graham, a consultant at the
Future Foundation, an independent think tank which monitors trends: 'They are
not going to take place overnight because the housing stock is so old. Houses
being built at the moment are still quite traditional. Most of the changes will
be technological.

    We already have a screen fridge which links up with the internet so you can
order groceries when you run out.

    'We will have internet microwaves and cookers, which can access recipes,
give cooking lessons, order from supermarkets and be operated remotely.'

    'Telephones will identify specific residents and ring only in the room where
they are sitting.

    Wall-sized TV screens in each room will turn on automatically as you move
round the house.

    'Homes will be incredibly adaptable. Couples who split up will be able to
live in separate apartments in the same house, with communal rooms for the
children.

    'Stronger, lighter and more environmentally-friendly building materials will
mean fantastic advances in adaptability.

    'It all means that the home in which you invest your life savings will be
with you for life - because when you move, you will take most of it with you.'

    PETS

    THE FUTURE of pets starts here.

    Japanese dogs already have their bark removed should it prove worse than
their bite. Dogs that suffer from acute separation anxiety can be treated with
Clomicalm, a sort of canine Prozac.

    Rottweilers are being altered so that their viciousness becomes focused
rather than random - useful if you are a thug with unpleasant friends as well as
enemies.

    But, as we look ahead, alarming prospects loom. There are those who warn of
cuddly snakes, with furry pelts; monkeys that can talk; even apes that can help
you with your A-level revision. The point is that if Dolly the sheep can be her
own mother, other, more exotic forms of genetic modification are but a heartbeat
away.

    It ought to be possible in, say, 2050 to visit a genetic veterinary
consultant and co-design the pet that is perfect for you.

    As long ago as 1989, a 'new' mouse was bred in the U.S. while in plants and
animals DNAmanipulation, or gene therapy, has been used in recent years to breed
functionally specific strains.

    Present-day vets remain sceptical about the potential that has been
unleashed.

    David Tyson, vice-president of the British Veterinary Association, is
scornful: 'Breeders have been practising selective breeding techniques for
centuries. There is no mystery about it and nothing to justify feelings of
hysteria.' Futuristic pets will not, however, be constrained by mere biology.

    Already, we have seen virtual and cyber pets. Furbies still sell.
Tamagotchi, the microchip entities that 'die' if not properly looked after,
almost certainly anticipate a trend.

    Dangers abound. Deep space, it is said, will be explored by computerised
machines, part of whose function will be to develop superior versions of
themselves.

    It must be at least plausible to assume that robopets would, after a few
virtual litters, give way to successors who would regard their masters as
inferior species. It might be they, in the end, who take us for a long walk off
a short plank.

    Exotic newcomers we can expect include the giant hissing cockroach (ideal
for small boys); the Chinese Shar-pei dog, which looks as if it acquired its
skin from an outsize shop; and the Bengal cat one-quarter wildcat, with marks
like a chess board.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000
